Created: 2025-12-26 01:22:46
Origin: searched
Selected: 2. 1. Structure To provide a flat, horizontal surface on which desired human activities can take place, all buildings contain at least one floor. In primitive buildings, the ground may be used as the floor. In better buildings, the floor may be a deck laid on the ground or supported above ground on structural members, such as the joist indicated in Fig.[Merritt, Frederick S., and James Ambrose (auth.) *Building Engineering and Systems Design*. Springer US, 1989.]

--- Context List ---
01. "2013 Email to the editors from Jeffrey Osterlund, NASA's Exploration  Chief Engineer, on the definition of "floor" in space: "NASA does have  an orientation that defines the 'floor' per se. Although without gravity,  any surface within the habitable modules that comprise ISS where a human  can feasibly 'walk' could be considered a floor by definition, NASA has  designated the surface that is normal tangential to the Earth as the floor  (i. e. , closest surface facing the Earth)."[INPUT: floor.pdf]

02. "FLOOR Infinitely harmless, the floor Is  obliged to offer Its occupants  stability -  yet receives from  Its users systematic harshness,  If not abuse, in return. k e lle r e a s t e r lin g FLOOR PAGE 1 floor . . . once a surface for symbolic expression -  defining the way  spaces are used, implying the 'rules of the game' -  floors in  the 20th century tended towards a purely Cartesian surface. . .  rational, undecorated, unloved, perfectly flat, ideally soundless-  simultaneous with our neglect of programmatic, symbolic,  and haptic potential, floor space became the dominant economic  measure of architectural space: real estate adopted a fetish  of the m2, masking the reality of the three-dimensional volume,  and the floor itself is typically a thick slab, sometimes a 'false  floor' containing mysteries similar to those of the ceiling. . ."[INPUT: floor.pdf]

03. "2. 1. Structure To provide a flat, horizontal surface on which desired human activities can take place, all buildings contain at least one floor. In primitive buildings, the ground may be used as the floor. In better buildings, the floor may be a deck laid on the ground or supported above ground on structural members, such as the joist indicated in Fig."[Merritt, Frederick S., and James Ambrose (auth.) *Building Engineering and Systems Design*. Springer US, 1989.]

04. "PAGE 2 FLOOR . . . staking the claim of civilization on  the raw ground, encoding usage and  assuming decoration, the floor then  accrues complexity in its section  while simplifying its surface details. . . FLOOR PAGE 3 relative floor International Space Station — Domino House — No Stop City, Continuous Monument — Floor Area Ratio (FAR) false floor — Raised floor systems "[INPUT: floor.pdf]

05. "Fig. 2. 2. Floor construction. (a) Plywood subfloor on wood joists. (b) Concrete deck on steel beams. Basic Building Elements and Their Representation wood structural members, called joists. (Joist is a term generally applied to very light, closely spaced, floor-beams. )Because the plywood is thin, the joists are closely spaced, usually 16 or 24 in."[Merritt, Frederick S., and James Ambrose (auth.) *Building Engineering and Systems Design*. Springer US, 1989.]

06. "In such cases, horizontal structural members, called beams, have to be provided to carry the weight of the deck and the loads on it to the vertical supports. Figure 2. 2 illustrates two of many types of floor construction in use. Figure 2. 2a shows a floor system often used in houses. The plywood sub floor is covered with carpeting. On the underside, the sub floor is supported on Electrical Systems In most buildings, electric equipment and wiring are provided to bring electric power into the interior and distribute the power where needed, for lighting, heating, operating motors, control systems and electronic equipment."[Merritt, Frederick S., and James Ambrose (auth.) *Building Engineering and Systems Design*. Springer US, 1989.]

07. "The walls are a large “plane. ” The sofa is a large “plane. ” The floor coverings and floor are large planes. My apartment might be a fun example to analyze . . . Our dining room and living room have zany painted floors—a deep beigey color coupled with a crisp white to make a wild, but not too wild, checkerboard floor. The walls pull from the white in the floor—a quiet “plane” in contrast with the “pop” of the painted floors."[Salway, Christina, and Monica Pedersen *Home improvement projects for the busy & broke: how to get your $h!t together and live like an adult*. Skyhorse Publishing, 2016.]

08. "It’s about flow, for the eye as well as for the overall balance of the space. And because the grid is the bone structure of a room, designing on a grid ensures there is a fluid conversation between all the different components, which in turn underpins how that space will feel. The horizontal and vertical lines in this dramatic entrance lobby are clearly defined."[Hoppen, Kelly *House of Hoppen: A Retrospective*. Jacqui Small, 2016.]

09. "• Plenum chamber ceilings in which the whole of the space between the ceiling and floor or roof soffit is used for Vertical boards {b} Optional covering board Main tee Wire hanger Cross tee Figure 3. 13 Open grid ceilings: (a) moulded chipboard, suspended from rod framework; (b) 1200 vertical boards as baffle, 1200 X 1200 spaces can contain lighting or ventilation units or be open."[Blanc, Alan *Internal Components*. Routledge, 1994.]

10. "à terre [ah tehr]—On the floor; refers to movements performed with the working leg touching the floor as opposed to in the air."[Kassing, Gayle *Beginning ballet*. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2013.]

11. "3 13 Francine’s Bedroom [Very Hard] Hidden under the bed is a floor safe [Very Hard] There’s rad-free water in the bathroom. • Unique Item: Nuka-Cola Victory [27/95] 4 1 • Floor Safe Items [Very Hard] 14 Restroom (Ladies) This has individual bathtubs for “discerning” clients, and the following: 5 Atomic Wrangler third floor A • First Aid Box • Medical Cabinet Items 2 15 6 Party Room There’s a number of mattresses in here, some cabinets to look through, and personal footlockers to rummage in."[Games, Prima *Fallout New Vegas*. Prima Games, 2010.]

12. "It’s a purist style, with tactile materials, furnishings and objects, because, above all, a house has to feel right. It’s also about the number, combination and placement of things: balance. It’s about where you put things and where you don’t. It’s knowing where a picture should be on a wall – how high or low, or how many. Just as in calligraphy, where it’s not the letters themselves but the space around them that’s really important, it’s often what you don’t put in a space that matters the most."[Hoppen, Kelly *House of Hoppen: A Retrospective*. Jacqui Small, 2016.]

13. "The random of the facets is a sharp contrast with the environment, it reminds of the freedom of nature, while large wood walls structure the space into a spatial composition the reveals unexpected views and perspective as you walk through. The space seems to be created with three basic elements: water (glass), stone (concrete floor) and wood (walls)."[Chang, Catherine *Beauty Salons*. Liaoning Science & Technology Publishing House, Profession Design Press, 2011.]

14. "Floor Finish A concrete floor can be finished with a sand and cement screed. By adding a floating floor it can provide good resistance to impact sound (from footsteps etc). This usually involves separating the floor finish from the structure by a thin layer of resilient material, ie a material that will return to its original size after being compressed."[MBEng, Duncan Marshall BSc MCIOB, and Derek Worthing BSc Mphil MRICS *The Construction of Houses, Fourth Edition*. 4th ed. Estates Gazette Ltd, 2006.]

15. "The strategic use of colour inside, or even the total absence of it, for example, is clearly one of the resources most often used by decorators to point out to specific architectural features within the space. Furniture planning in detail controls the size of the interior space relative to the human scale."[Du (Editor), Darren *New Art Deco Style*. Design Media Publishing Ltd, 2011.]