Created: 2025-12-30 01:40:24
Origin: searched
Selected: The more this reformation is prevented, the clearer the glass. This ability to be formed and reformed opens the material to technical manipulation and innovation. Fundamentally, glass is hard, yet fragile and brittle. Most glass breaks upon impact into many pieces with sharp edges, and the sense of danger from cutting is never far from the human perception of and response to glass. Glass breaks like ceramic tiles, whose tiny surface imperfections likewise make them vulnerable to shattering upon impact.[Yglesias, Caren *The Innovative Use of Materials in Architecture and Landscape Architecture: History, Theory and Performance*. McFarland, 2014.]

--- Context List ---
01. "The more this reformation is prevented, the clearer the glass. This ability to be formed and reformed opens the material to technical manipulation and innovation. Fundamentally, glass is hard, yet fragile and brittle. Most glass breaks upon impact into many pieces with sharp edges, and the sense of danger from cutting is never far from the human perception of and response to glass. Glass breaks like ceramic tiles, whose tiny surface imperfections likewise make them vulnerable to shattering upon impact."[Yglesias, Caren *The Innovative Use of Materials in Architecture and Landscape Architecture: History, Theory and Performance*. McFarland, 2014.]

02. "The polished surface receives the gaze and, through its invisibility, reﬂects ﬂeeting glimpses of the “other,” much like a mirror. Even with perfectly clear glass, the extent of this view is bounded because most glass panels require a frame. The neutral frame isolates the glass and what may be seen through it from its context (Ortega y Gassett 1986: 24). The frame turns the view into a “picture” and alters the nature of the spectator’s gaze. In an essay called “Fear of Glass: The Barcelona Pavilion,” the author says that glass allows eternal special currents to ﬂow through space (Quetglas 2001)."[Yglesias, Caren *The Innovative Use of Materials in Architecture and Landscape Architecture: History, Theory and Performance*. McFarland, 2014.]

03. "Two sheets of glass with a transparent plastic sheet sandwiched between them to form a pane resistant to shattering. Sheet Glass Sec window glass. Shim A small wedgelike device, typically a piece of an exterior wood shingle, which tightens the fit between two separate building elements. Show Window A window for display of goods. See also cabinet window. Shutter A frame assembly mounted on a window supporting a panel that shuts out light or view from a window opening; originally for protection, then decoration, and now energy conservation."[York, New *Repairing Old and Historic Windows: A Manual for Architects and Homeowners*. Washington, D.C: Preservation Press, National Trust for Historic Preservation, 1992.]

04. "Glass - A hard brittle amorphous substance produced by fusion and usually consisting of mutually dissolved silica or silicates that also contain soda and lime. It may be transparent, translucent, or opaque. Glazing - The securing of glass in prepared opening in windows, door panels, screens, partitions, etc. Heat-Absorbing Glass - Glass (usually tinted) formulated to absorb an appreciable portion of solar energy."[Garg, N.K. *Guidelines for Use of Glass in Buildings*. New Age Publications (Academic), 2007.]

05. "Clear glass is seen largely through reflections from its surface, which can render the glass conditionally opaque. In the absence of reflections, the glass becomes transparent. Designers intent on achieving maximum transparency in a glass facade have employed antireflective coatings with considerable success, minimizing reflections and thereby enhancing transparency. The pursuit of transparency in the building envelope has driven many of the developments in glass and glass facade technology in recent decades."[Patterson, Mic *Structural Glass Facades and Enclosures : a Vocabulary of Transparency*. Chichester: John Wiley & Sons, 2011.]

06. "Glass that's used for panes in windows and doors is typically single or double strength and Ya inch thick or less. In small picture windows and glass doors, the glass is usually Y4 inch thick, though the larger the window, the thicker the glass must be. Let a professional determine the thickness required for a large window; if the glass isn't thick enough, strong winds may shat ter it . Insulating glass is an as sembly of two or three panes of glass separated by moisture-free air space. A drying agent in the frame surrounding the glass keeps the air dry; this reduces the possibility of condensation-or ice in freezing climates-forming, obscuring the view and reducing the insulating qualities."[*Windows & skylights* Menlo Park, Calif: Lane Pub. Co, 1982.]

07. "the glass Mottled and dots that resemble the appearance of bacteria or amoe- microscope. Textured glass is perfect for imitating waves on water, or drapery folds. Fractured glass consists of a sheet of glass with irregular chips of broken glass melted into the surface, details of a one color in in reflected light (e. g. , transmitted light dows and lamps, is and is used to imitate the landscape seen at great distance, such as a (e. g. , giving switched on and off. blood them murky green) and red). Dichroic glass split personalities a little blurry forest. Dichroic glass has completely different color adds great mystery to win- as day turns to night or a lamp In 1901 Tiffany was chosen to create the adornments ebrations, for the Yale Bicentennial cel- and he responded with mix that included waving flags, a joyful glowing Japanese lanterns, and the decorative use Many who of evergreens. festivities most attended the congratulated Tiffany on his effective decoration ever, and in 1903 Yale awarded him an honorarv was Master of Arts degree."[Warmus, William *The Essential Louis Comfort Tiffany*. Harry N. Abrams, Inc., 2001.]

08. "Glass as Window The emergence of glass in window applications is attributed to the Roman imperial period. Window glass was first used in isolated applications, such as in the public baths to reduce air drafts. Early window glass was rather crude and unevenly translucent, as the techniques for producing transparent glass products were yet to be developed. Glass at this point was not about providing transparency or a view; it was most likely used for security and insulation from the exterior environment and for natural lighting."[Patterson, Mic *Structural Glass Facades and Enclosures : a Vocabulary of Transparency*. Chichester: John Wiley & Sons, 2011.]

09. "In plane deformation of the window frames is the primary cause of window glass damage. The deformation is accommodated by two consecutive mechanisms: rigid body motion of the glass panel in the window frame & the diagonal shortening of the glass under in-plane compressive forces. The first mechanism depends on the clearance between the glass panel & window frame and resiliency of the sealant material. The second mechanism is related to the mechanical properties of the glass panel. For greater safety from earthquakes: • The edges of glass panels shall have adequate clearance from the frame (Top: 14 mm; Bottom: 10mm; left/right 12mm)."[Garg, N.K. *Guidelines for Use of Glass in Buildings*. New Age Publications (Academic), 2007.]

10. "1210-15 produce small tiles of glass, bonded a pattern that reflects but Although invention, stained glass owes The arrangement to a base structure such as stone, to does not transmit light. The process of making transparent stained glass matured during the Middle Ages, when the windows were great stained-glass first most stained glass served century, change in a religious purpose, but Tiffany helped to new genres of stained glass, such as landscapes, windows made up the vast majority of Tiffany's commis- stained glass."[Warmus, William *The Essential Louis Comfort Tiffany*. Harry N. Abrams, Inc., 2001.]

11. "In southern climates, double-glazed tinted glass (C) reduces heat transfer. Tempered (or “safety”) glass (D) has extra strength for use in patio doors, storm doors, and large picture windows. Whatever the type of framing or glass in your window, the pane can be one piece or divided into smaller panes by muntins. True muntins actually hold individual pieces of glass, while snap-on muntins can be easily removed for cleaning the glass or to change the look of the window. Window & Door Inspection Tips Here are a few things to look for when you inspect your new window or door before you begin the installation: • Hardware is sturdy and all pieces are present."[coll. *The Complete Guide to Windows & Entryways*. Cool Springs Press, 2008.]

12. "To block out an undesirable view, use a stained glass panel the size of the window; to focus attention on the view, select a rectangular or curved stained glass frame around clear glass. Clear glass mixed at random with colored glass in a single panel gives a feeling of depth . A glass bird or foliage pattern complements house plants or enriches a garden view. If your window has many small panes, consider replacing only a pane or two for a colorful splash of light. For a room with a double-hung or horizontally sliding window, you can create an especially rich feeling by designing each sash with different colors."[*Windows & skylights* Menlo Park, Calif: Lane Pub. Co, 1982.]

13. "PAGE 39 WINDOW PAGE 40 WINDOW Glass Initially used primarily to let light in, glass -  traditionally  made out of silica (Si02) mixed with other chemical  compounds -  increasingly takes on additional roles  previously fulfilled by other materials. Continual improvements in the production of ever-larger panes means more  glass in windows, so much glass in fact that the window  itself starts to disappear. . . ca. 70 AD One of the earliest window panes,  3 mm thick, found near Herculaneum. WINDOW PAGE 41 "[INPUT: window.pdf]

14. "Glass windows will therefore withstand the action of atmospheric agencies for many years. Under certain conditions, however, glass will be corroded and it is not correct 22 CHEMICAL DURABILITY to speak of glass as a completely insoluble material. Glass is readily dissolved by hydrofluoric acid, which is used in the etching of glass. Its chemical resistance towards the attack of most other acids is very good, but alkaline solutions, on the other hand, attack glass quite severely. By decreasing the alkali content of a glass its chemical durability is improved."[(auth.), Rune Persson *Flat Glass Technology*. Springer US, 1969.]

15. "Traditional window glass design methodology assumes that loads act quasi-statically with durations measured in seconds or longer periods. When an explosion occurs, air blast pressure loads window glass lites dynamically over very short time durations. Figure 2 shows the approximate relationship between stress duration and stress magnitude at which fracture occurs for annealed window glass [13]. Figure 2 indicates 162 THE USE OF GLASS IN BUILDINGS that under short duration loading the stress at which fracture is initiated, which somehow correlates with window glass load resistance, increases dramatically."[Valerie L. Block, editor *The Use of Glass in Buildings: 1st Symposium on the Use of Glass in Buildings, 2002, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania (ASTM Special Technical Publication, 1434)*. 2002.]

16. "Capitalism and Schizophrenia (1987), 175. PAGE 68 WINDOW Were Windows Eyes?By Manfredo di Robilant 0. ANATOMICAL METAPHORS AND THE MISSING EYE "The condition of looking through/from the window is typical of Europe,  where starting from the 16th century houses were used as cameras thanks  to the improved techniques of production of glass. "— Alan Macfarlane, Gerry Martin, The Glass Bathyscaphe: How Glass Changed the World (2002). 1  There is a latent anatomical metaphor embedded in the western notion of  the window -  developed since the late 15th century, when Europe began  subjugating the world -  though it is a metaphor that has rarely been fully  expressed: the "window as eye" could be a device that selected a view  on the world outside, or it could be a puncture through which portions of  interiors were exposed."[INPUT: window.pdf]

17. "Also, this type of glass can allow the interior temperature to rise to a higher level before failing as compared to the common single-pane glass windows, and can increase the chance of a flashover as well as subject interior personnel to higher levels of heat. Although not a type of glass, there are numerous glass coatings or films that can be added to existing glass for energy conservation, noise reduction, and protection from falling glass in earthquakes."[Dodson, David W., and John Mittendorf *The Art of Reading Buildings*. PennWell,Fire Engineering Books, 2014.]

18. "Some designers attempt to devise "strong" monolithic window glass lites or window glass constructions to resist a design air blast pressure without fracture. Many factors NORVlLLE AND CONRATH ON BLAST-RESISTANT GLASS 163 tend to make this approach undesirable. First, any window glass construction designed to withstand even an air blast pressure loading of low magnitude would be very thick and would most probably involve heat treated window glass. Such window glass constructions would have prohibitive costs."[Valerie L. Block, editor *The Use of Glass in Buildings: 1st Symposium on the Use of Glass in Buildings, 2002, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania (ASTM Special Technical Publication, 1434)*. 2002.]

19. "A glass made from soda, lime, and silica; its thickness ranges from 0. 05 to 0. 22 inch (1. 27 to 5. 9 millimeters). Three grades-AA, A, and B-are offered by glass manufacturers. Window Schedule A listing of windows required in a given house, stating types, sizes, number of lights, manufacturer, and any special needs. Window Unit A complete window with sash and frame. Wind Pressure The pressure produced by stopping the wind velocity; the main cause of air infiltration. Wire Glass A glass with inner wire mesh for strength and tireretardant qualities."[York, New *Repairing Old and Historic Windows: A Manual for Architects and Homeowners*. Washington, D.C: Preservation Press, National Trust for Historic Preservation, 1992.]

20. "Beveled Glass Doors Stained glass window Glass blocks are used in a window that separates rooms. Block Glass Window Panel Try glass blocks instead of a room screen or etched glass to create a view. This option is definitely a unique way to set your windows apart from the average, while still providing privacy. [page 95] Windows Treatments Made Simple 11. 5 Matching Hard Window Treatments to Your Decorating Style!Traditional – Go with fabric textured horizontal blinds or balloon, pleated or fabric roll shades."[M.K., Makridakis, and Holland M. *How to Create Rooms of Radiance. Windows Treatments Made Simple*. 2003.]

21. "A thermally-tempered glass (a toughened glass) cannot be broken unless sufficient force is applied which will first overcome the compression at the surface and then introduce enough tension for breakage. A crack will always start at the surface and since the surface is in compression in tempered glass, its strength will be much higher Figure 9. 13. Testing of tempered (left) and ordinary flat glass of similar thicknesses; notice how the tempered pane has lifted from the bricks after the steel ball has hit it 96 PROCESSED GLASS than that of annealed glass."[(auth.), Rune Persson *Flat Glass Technology*. Springer US, 1969.]

22. "Building with glass block is much like building with mortared brick, with two important differences. First, glass block must be supported by another structure and cannot function in a load-bearing capacity. Second, glass block cannot be cut, so take extra time to make sure the layout is accurate. When installing a glass block window, the size of the rough opening is based on the size and number of blocks you are using. It is much easier to make an existing opening smaller to accommodate the glass block rather than make it larger, which requires reframing the rough opening."[coll. *The Complete Guide to Windows & Entryways*. Cool Springs Press, 2008.]

23. "An alternative approach is to clamp the glass by passing plates through the joints between the units. Consequently, the design and position of the clamps becomes a primary issue in the design of the system as the visual impact of a surface covered with small clamps creates a kind of ‘point cloud’ of fixings across the surface of the glass wall or roof. The curving of glass has undergone some development, at least in the quality of production, in recent years. Specialist companies around Europe now offer single curved glass panels in both tempered and laminated glass."[Watts, Andrew *Modern Construction Handbook*. Ambra Verlag, 2013.]

24. "9–2). Fig. 9–2. Tempered glass breaks into small pieces if struck in a lower corner with a sharp or pointed forcible entry tool. Laminated glass (or safety glass). Safety glass comes in numerous forms, but most contain a layer of polyester or polyvinyl film sandwiched between two layers of standard or tempered glass—adding strength. Common applications are in glass doors, which require an extra measure of strength."[Dodson, David W., and John Mittendorf *The Art of Reading Buildings*. PennWell,Fire Engineering Books, 2014.]

25. "There are several important differences between breaking a small residence window and breaking the large plate-glass window of a commercial structure to vent smoke from that building. Venting the large plate-glass window is more dangerous. For example, the glass from a residence window is usually only one-eighth inch thick; when it is broken, its pieces are small; its weight, when falling, is negligible. A firefighter caught below falling glass at a fire in a residence building can imitate a turtle, avoid looking up, and, if wearing proper protective clothing, can avoid serious injury."[Dunn, Vincent *Safety and Survival on the Fireground*. Saddle Brook, N.J: Fire Engineering Books & Videos, 1992.]