Created: 2025-12-27 14:42:01
Origin: suggested
Selected: It was barely light the next morning when my stomach woke me and sent me stumbling down the stairs to the Alaq's cement water closet, my insides all knotted up. I passed a pair of miserable days in that hotel before I could force myself out of bed onto a bus back to Marrakesh, and quite a few days more before I was back in western civilization, with my beads, feeling like my old self.[Schweid, Richard *The Cockroach Papers: A Compendium of History and Lore*. Basic Books, Inc., 1999.]

--- Context List ---
01. "It had grown absolutely dark; a bat fluttered against the broken glass of the window He heard music; far, curious music . . . very faint, very vague, but unmistakable. Like a flash of lightning came a jagged line of fire down the blank wall opposite him, a line that remained, that grew wider, that let a pale cold light into the room, showing him now all its details . . . and in the very middle, black against the curious Page 66 brightness [there stood Count Albert, the] ghost, or devil . . . [who] beckoned to him. . . ."[Shand-Tucci, Douglass, and Ralph Adams Cram *Boston Bohemia, 1881-1900: Ralph Adams Cram--Life and Architecture*. University of Massachusetts Press, 1995.]

02. "I with drew the rod like lightning and awaited a report. Some minutes later it came whispered up the tunnel (noise carries like thunder in a tunnel). My rod had been waving about two feet above the roadway, but was so dose to the shed that even Rupert had not noticed it for some time. Now we continued with confidence, and after a few days I broke the surface under the wood-pile and first smelt wholesome frfesh air."[Reid, P R *Escape from Colditz : the two classic escape stories*. Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1952.]

03. "Shadows are deceptive things. A little copse seems like an impenetrable forest. field of hay may turn into a discouraging reedy marsh. A stook of corn suddenly takes on a fantastic resemblance to a silent listening man. time, seeking to solve eyes, its A THE PRICE OF FAILURE A sheet-white ghost looms out from the mist It moves 63 a as frightened as ourselves by the en counter."[Reid, P R *Escape from Colditz : the two classic escape stories*. Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1952.]

04. "I lifted my hand to turn it up again. It felt like lead, and fell beside me. Then I awokeabsolutely. . . . I tried to rise, to cry out. My body was like lead, my tongue was paralyzed. . . . Darker and darker yet; little by little the pattern of the paper was swallowed up in the advancing night A thin, keen humming began in my head, like cicadas on a hillside in September. . . ."[Shand-Tucci, Douglass, and Ralph Adams Cram *Boston Bohemia, 1881-1900: Ralph Adams Cram--Life and Architecture*. University of Massachusetts Press, 1995.]

05. "Instead I found myself transported into a mysterious cave. It was like a small cavern built of bricks, lit partly by dim wall lights and partly by daylight filtering down through what appeared deep crevices in the brick-vaulted roof. I could hear the sound of water dripping. I walked the short distance to an opening in the far left corner (below left), and saw the inside of the church, itself like a large brick-built cavern, dark but with glaring white light coming in through uncompromisingly square windows without frames."[Unwin, Simon *Doorway*. Routledge, 2008.]

06. "Empty words, hollow words, like wind pipes. Just statements through which to blow noise so that there isn’t silence. Be brave. I’d like to say that I am, but I know the truth. If I was brave I would’ve killed him. But instead I left. Mum and Eleanor stood on the steps crying and hugging. My father didn’t come outside when my mate’s truck pulled up to take me into town."[Newton, Nerida *Death of a Whaler*. 2007.]

07. "Whatever self-consciousness I may have felt at allowing my gut to unwrench in the presence of another human being disappeared as my companion wrestled through a complicated labor to birth to his own unwanted offspring. Something truly epic was taking place next door. Primordial sounds, much like the earth made while cooling, rumbled through already thick, fetid air."[Praeger, Dave, and Paul Provenza *Poop Culture: How America Is Shaped by Its Grossest National Product*. Feral House, 2007.]

08. "There, some kind of Muslim ceremony was being held; a blind man entered with a lute made of reddish wood. A-t my feet, motionless as an object, an old, old man squatted on the threshold. I’ll tell you what he was like, for he is an essential part of the story. His many years had worn him down and polished him as smooth as water polishes stone, or as the generations of men polish a sentence."[Unwin, Simon *Doorway*. Routledge, 2008.]

09. "LETA Corvus Lestrange is already dead. I killed him. LETA raises her wand. LETA Accio!A heavy box, hidden in the corner of the mausoleum, comes crashing to her through the dust. A series of clicks as cogs whirr . . . Puzzle-like, it falls apart. LETA My father owned a very strange family tree. It only recorded the men . . . We glimpse a tree with an orchid-like flower twisting around it."[[Rowling, J. K. Rowling, and J. K.] *Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald - the Original Screenplay*. Pottermore Publishing, 2018.]

10. "Throughout the classical centuries the idea lingered on in England that a Gothic gloom was the proper home of sanctity. Thus Milton in Il Penseroso: [ 69 ] Westminster Abbey bk. indb 69 13/3/06 16:13:29 But let my due feet never fail, To walk the studious cloister’s pale, And love the high embowed roof, With antique pillars’ massy proof, And storied windows richly dight, Casting a dim religious light."[Jenkyns, Richard *Westminster Abbey*. Profile Books Ltd, 2005.]

11. "He began a serious search of the surrounding area and quickly discovered an old truck scale that in its abandoned state looked very much like a bridge. A little further on he discovered what was left of an old railroad track, now nearly covered by grass and brush. The detective walked to the edge of the quarry. It was at least 50 to 75 feet straight down to the water, certainly enough to give the impression of falling through the air."[Sellier, Marie *The Paranormal Sourcebook (Roxbury Park Books)*. McGraw-Hill, 1999.]

12. "She leans back in the chair and stretches. Creaking vinyl. Contented sigh. ‘How’s the boat coming along?Out on the water yet?’ 222 3RD PAGES 11/04/06 12/4/06 9:11 AM DEATH Page 223 of a WHALER ‘No. ’ ‘Why not?’ ‘There’s still quite a bit to be done. Macca wants to restore it traditionally. Lots of bronze and varnish. ’ ‘Ah, right. ’ ‘You don’t just make something like that seaworthy overnight. ’ ‘My mistake. ’ Silence hangs in the air, a remnant of something else, like the smell of a burnt dinner."[Newton, Nerida *Death of a Whaler*. 2007.]

13. "In the meantime, the fire conditions were quickly worsening throughout the building as well as around the hole. The heat coming from the hole was becoming more intense, and Nance was running out of air, as several firefighters heard him say, “I need air. ” While the hole was being opened up and the ladder was being positioned back into the hole, an air bottle was lowered into the basement."[Kolomay, Richard, and Robert Hoff *Firefighter Rescue And Survival*. Tulsa, Okla: PennWell, 2003.]

14. "Many a night coming back beaten down and worn out after sending the next morning's edition of the BROWNSVILLE HERALD to press, brain burned by hours in front of the cold light of the computer screen, I would arrive home wanting nothing so much as a sit-down with a cold beer. I would unlock the front door, flip the light switch, and something that seemed the size of a small bird would whir past my head."[Schweid, Richard *The Cockroach Papers: A Compendium of History and Lore*. Basic Books, Inc., 1999.]

15. "It need hardly be said that any collector who is fortunate enough to obtain an example in reasonably good condition may esteem himself fortunate. As to the reason of the sudden emptying I cannot do better than quote from Mr Hartshorne, an old friend and the greatest authority on Old English glass. Masonic, Toasting, and Freak Glasses. An Early Cambridge Yard Ale Glass."[Sydney, Lewis J. *Old Glass and How to Collect it*. Palala Press, 2016.]

16. "During light density conditions, Hoskins (2011) found that occupants tended to stay to the inside of the stair. One study (Peacock et al. 2011) used a multiple regression model and found that which side of the stair occupants were on was significant in determining their movement speed. One author attempted to quantify the line-of-travel distance between occupants."[Hoskins, Bryan L., and James A. Milke (auth.) *Study of Movement Speeds Down Stairs*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2013.]

17. "These charming old windows, like many old casements, lack crank mechanisms and open like small doors. I . . . ~ ~- J --. . . . t- III ~ o -' IIII ~ o . . . . I « l) z ::> '" A clever device for getting more light into a kitchen along a wall that otherwise would be given over to a solid mass of wood cabinetry is to incorporate an inoperable window behind the upper cabinet, face it with a glass door, and then simply allow the daylight to shine through the window and the cabinet into the room."[Labau, Peter *The New Bungalow Kitchen*. Taunton Press, 2007.]

18. "People wanted something less formal, so rails and panelling began to disappear from homes, and there were fewer but larger rooms, with an increased amount of natural light. There was also a return to a simpler, more pared-down approach to colour. Pastel blue tones like ‘Skylight’ and ‘Pale Powder’, fresh greens like ‘Tunsgate Green’ and ‘Green Ground’, and pinks such as ‘Calamine’ were all used to create a sense of space."[Studholme, Joa, and Charlotte Cosby *Farrow & Ball How to Decorate: Transform Your Home with Paint & Paper*. Mitchell Beazley, 2016.]

19. "(2005) conducted 368 telephone interviews with survivors of the World Trade center collapse. In each tower there were two 1. 1 m-wide stairs and one 1. 4 m-wide stair. Individuals were observed to be altruistic. Some individuals left the stair that they started in due to instructions or deteriorating conditions within the stairs and some women removed their high-heeled shoes."[Hoskins, Bryan L., and James A. Milke (auth.) *Study of Movement Speeds Down Stairs*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2013.]

20. "A detail of one of the Bubble-style chairs (shown here) highlights the wonderful contrast of the shiny surface with the texture of the linen cushion inside. A solid glass sphere sits, crystal-ball-like, on a black oak newel post, reflecting the chandelier suspended above (see also here and here). Transparent furniture, such as this glass Ghost chair by Cini Boeri for Fiam, creates an unexpected marrying of solidity and translucency."[Hoppen, Kelly *House of Hoppen: A Retrospective*. Jacqui Small, 2016.]

21. "She stops beside an open door. The Great Hall is lit with floating candles. SCENE 66 INT. EMPTY HOGWARTS CLASSROOM—DAY LETA walks slowly into the classroom, then turns to look back into the corridor and— DISSOLVE TO: SCENE 67 INT. EMPTY HOGWARTS CLASSROOM—SEVENTEEN YEARS PREVIOUSLY—MORNING 13-YEAR-OLD LETA stands hiding inside the empty classroom while students in cloaks trundle by, pushing trunks and carrying owls."[[Rowling, J. K. Rowling, and J. K.] *Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald - the Original Screenplay*. Pottermore Publishing, 2018.]

22. "Light energy from the sun passes through a transparent medium, like glass, plastic, or air. When it strikes a surface, it is transformed into heat energy, which passes through glass much less readily than light. A black or nearly black surface changes most of the light to heat, while a light-colored surface reflects much of the light. For the homebuilder, once sunlight has been changed to heat, the challenge is to keep as much of this heat as possible in the house through the use of insulation, heat sinks, and a few other tricks such as shutters."[Freeman, Mark *The Solar Home: How to Design and Build a House You Heat With the Sun (How-To Guides)*. Stackpole Books, 1994.]

23. "It was barely light the next morning when my stomach woke me and sent me stumbling down the stairs to the Alaq's cement water closet, my insides all knotted up. I passed a pair of miserable days in that hotel before I could force myself out of bed onto a bus back to Marrakesh, and quite a few days more before I was back in western civilization, with my beads, feeling like my old self."[Schweid, Richard *The Cockroach Papers: A Compendium of History and Lore*. Basic Books, Inc., 1999.]

24. "The attempt to create a home-like environment was enhanced by the lack of bars on the windows. Rather windows were composed of small panes of glass set in cast iron sashes. But like Glasgow the windows in the bedrooms were small (3ft. by 3½ ft. ) and set six to seven feet high in an attempt to prevent injury to the patients (Tuke 1813: 100 & 105)."[Piddock, Susan *A Space of Their Own: The Archaeology of Nineteenth Century Lunatic Asylums in Britain, South Australia and Tasmania*. Springer, 2007.]

25. "One of the most interesting discoveries in connection with the history of the glass industry in England was made some sixty or seventy FIG. 1. —AN EARLY ELIZABETHAN GLASS, DATED 1586. FIG. 2. —AN OLD ENGLISH GLASS TANKARD AND COVER. years ago at the little Hampshire village of Buckholt Wood. Excavations here brought to light fragments of glass, some clear, others with a greenish or bluish tinge, evidently portions of broken vessels of various kinds—drinking glasses, jugs, bottles, and so forth."[Sydney, Lewis J. *Old Glass and How to Collect it*. Palala Press, 2016.]