Created: 2025-12-26 02:11:55
Origin: suggested
Selected: Whenever a floor plan arrangement emerges in any stage of the planning process, some form of three-dimensional sketch, no matter how rough or tentative, can be useful. It is not necessary to debate here whether a solidly functional floor plan is more important than a visually satisfying space; both are crucial to well-designed and sustainable interiors.[Karlen, Mark, and Rob Fleming *Space Planning Basics*. 4th ed. Wiley, 2016.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Whenever a floor plan arrangement emerges in any stage of the planning process, some form of three-dimensional sketch, no matter how rough or tentative, can be useful. It is not necessary to debate here whether a solidly functional floor plan is more important than a visually satisfying space; both are crucial to well-designed and sustainable interiors."[Karlen, Mark, and Rob Fleming *Space Planning Basics*. 4th ed. Wiley, 2016.]

02. "2. 1. Structure To provide a flat, horizontal surface on which desired human activities can take place, all buildings contain at least one floor. In primitive buildings, the ground may be used as the floor. In better buildings, the floor may be a deck laid on the ground or supported above ground on structural members, such as the joist indicated in Fig."[Merritt, Frederick S., and James Ambrose (auth.) *Building Engineering and Systems Design*. Springer US, 1989.]

03. "FLOOR Infinitely harmless, the floor Is  obliged to offer Its occupants  stability -  yet receives from  Its users systematic harshness,  If not abuse, in return. k e lle r e a s t e r lin g FLOOR PAGE 1 floor . . . once a surface for symbolic expression -  defining the way  spaces are used, implying the 'rules of the game' -  floors in  the 20th century tended towards a purely Cartesian surface. . .  rational, undecorated, unloved, perfectly flat, ideally soundless-  simultaneous with our neglect of programmatic, symbolic,  and haptic potential, floor space became the dominant economic  measure of architectural space: real estate adopted a fetish  of the m2, masking the reality of the three-dimensional volume,  and the floor itself is typically a thick slab, sometimes a 'false  floor' containing mysteries similar to those of the ceiling. . ."[INPUT: floor.pdf]

04. "Although some physical planning has taken place, in drawing prototypical plan sketches of specific functions or rooms and abstract relationship diagrams of the organization as a whole, the overall plan has not yet been approached from a realistic planning viewpoint. The initial leap from these pre-design steps to the more creative development of a floor plan that solves the practical and esthetic problems of users is the most difficult and critical element in the space planning process."[Karlen, Mark, and Rob Fleming *Space Planning Basics*. 4th ed. Wiley, 2016.]

05. "See Illustration 5–3 for reflected ceiling plans that demonstrate some of these issues of planning and design coordination. Basic ceiling configurations must be considered at this early planning phase, including concerns for ceiling height(s), slopes, and soffits. The ceiling, despite its basic importance, is too often the forgotten surface in interior spaces."[Karlen, Mark, and Rob Fleming *Space Planning Basics*. 4th ed. Wiley, 2016.]

06. "Outside becomes in, inside becomes out. Lighting armatures and lighting levels were very important because of the function of the space, and soft lighting combines with natural materials to create a warm, welcoming feel. 在室内的表面设计中，马赛克、天然石材、木材、玻璃和镜 子等材料相互作用，打造出了一曲和谐的乐章。设计师精心 挑选了一些图案、海报和标语贴在墙面上，为空间增添了浪 漫的感觉。 2 1. Wood floor in cutting area creates a relaxing atmosphere 2."[Chang, Catherine *Beauty Salons*. Liaoning Science & Technology Publishing House, Profession Design Press, 2011.]

07. "From Neolithic times onward, in  cultures all around the world, the threshing floor was a place of work but also a place of gathering,  dancing, ritual, and worship. It evolved into the square or plaza -  the meeting ground of the demos. A place of assembly and negotiation, it is then perhaps the first "floor," as that word is used in  "the floor of the parliament" or "the floor of the stock exchange. ""[INPUT: floor.pdf]

08. "But the Old English flor (1,000 AD), meaning floor, ground, pavement, and bottom (as in the bottom PAGE 8 FLOOR 2014 Featureless and soundless (except for sneakers, which squeak on it), an architecture office's expansive  gray rubber floor, by manufacturers Nora, provides the most neutral possible platform for work. of a lake), could be both an Indoor and an outdoor condition. 3 The threshing floor -  an outdoor floor  technology predating the ancients -  was a bit of hardened or paved ground for stamping, thrashing  or grinding grain, often located on high ground to catch the wind."[INPUT: floor.pdf]

09. "Floor-Ceiling Systems Often, for aesthetic reasons, for foot comfort, for noise control or to protect the deck from wear, afloor covering is placed atop the deck. In such cases, the deck is called a subfloor. When a floor is not placed directly on the ground; for example, when a floor extends above a room below, some means must be provided for supporting the deck in place."[Merritt, Frederick S., and James Ambrose (auth.) *Building Engineering and Systems Design*. Springer US, 1989.]

10. "Hence, 585 the smaller the area for vertical circulation, the more usable floor area for a given perimeter, or the smaller the perimeter for a required usable floor area. Often, if more usable area can be obtained for each floor, the lower are the number of stories required for the building. Because of the lower height of the building, there will be savings in costs of interior and exterior walls, piping, wiring, stairs and elevat0fs."[Merritt, Frederick S., and James Ambrose (auth.) *Building Engineering and Systems Design*. Springer US, 1989.]

11. "At the waiting area, the wood floor pattern breaks the normal long-running board pattern with cross-stitched short boards slowing the visitor down. In the lounge area a brick floor with a simple running bond pattern define the informal dining area. At the kitchen visitors walk on an antiqued hexagonal brick floor. Even in the bathrooms, a carefully considered large stone floor pattern support a larger series of discrete experiences that work overall to quietly engage the visitor into quiet contemplation."[Du (Editor), Darren *New Art Deco Style*. Design Media Publishing Ltd, 2011.]

12. "“Thinking about how you move in and through a space is the key. ” Reorienting a layout can deliver great gains,suchascreatingadualuseforasingle room or maximising storage, says Sydney interior designer Natasha Levak. “With a clever floor plan, you can ensure no space is wasted and the general feeling of the interior becomes not only practical but aesthetically pleasing. ” Levak recently remodelled an Art Deco apartment in Sydney’s east."[*Australian House & Garden* 2017.]

13. "Such a design should not only critically interpret and abstract the ongoing process of urban layering, but also contribute to such formation via its spatial and geometrical organisation. One of the major problems was in organising this space as a multi-religious cultural centre, while an associated problem was to unite sub-ground levels with ground floor facilities."[Brebbia, C. A., D. Kaliampakos, and P. Prochazka *Underground Spaces : Design, Engineering and Environmental Aspects (Wit Transactions on the Built Environment)*. WIT Press, 2008.]

14. "BS PD 6440 Accuracy in building. It is important to consider the ceiling in relation to any partitioning system that may be used in the building. In some cases the use of a raised floor system can also have an influence on the type of suspended ceiling, particularly when the building incorporates a large number of mechanical services (see Fig. 4. 1). 3. 3. 1 Appearance Suspended ceilings are often used for the sole purpose of improving the appearance of the underside of the floor or roof above."[Blanc, Alan *Internal Components*. Routledge, 1994.]

15. "That said, it should be remembered that arbitrarily eliminating as many interior walls as possible will not necessarily result in a better space. While floor area and elbow room are inevitably gained, wall space is lost. This may affect the possibilities for furniture placement and storage options. Open-concept layouts are great so long as they truly correspond with the necessities at hand."[Shafer, Jay *The Small House Book*. Tumbleweed Tiny House, 2009.]