Created: 2025-11-02 23:23:36
Origin: suggested
Selected: Rather than using the metaphor of the project, I look at the metaphor of the matrix. The matrix contradicts the model of design thinking that starts with an abstract idea that is gradually implemented through an iterative process. This classical model dating back to Aristotle’s vision of architecture, does not account for the fact that design/conception and design/practice are bringing together materials in unexpected ways without necessarily following a defined plan. However, I find interesting to analyze how composition is a projective abductive practice.[ The In-Discipline of Design: Bridging the Gap Between Humanities and Engineering, Annie Gentes (auth.), 2017]

--- Context List ---
01. "Rather than using the metaphor of the project, I look at the metaphor of the matrix. The matrix contradicts the model of design thinking that starts with an abstract idea that is gradually implemented through an iterative process. This classical model dating back to Aristotle’s vision of architecture, does not account for the fact that design/conception and design/practice are bringing together materials in unexpected ways without necessarily following a defined plan. However, I find interesting to analyze how composition is a projective abductive practice."[ The In-Discipline of Design: Bridging the Gap Between Humanities and Engineering, Annie Gentes (auth.), 2017]

02. "The following part of the chapter is devoted to positioning the paradigm of reflectivity in design with regard to the paradigm of interactivity. Both semantic fields presuppose a feedback loop between user and system, but I will argue that introducing the concept of reflective technologies helps us think about design as a critical activity that expands the design space."[ The In-Discipline of Design: Bridging the Gap Between Humanities and Engineering, Annie Gentes (auth.), 2017]

03. "The Second Chapter offers to switch from the interactive to the reflective design paradigm. The book posits that interactive design as a paradigm of design relies on a model that focuses on activities and does not question the values, the aesthetics of the artifact and therefore restricts the expansion into new norms, or new aesthetics. On the contrary, reflective design is about methods that generate new questions about functionalities, but also personal emotions, social rituals, formats, and knowledge."[ The In-Discipline of Design: Bridging the Gap Between Humanities and Engineering, Annie Gentes (auth.), 2017]

04. "Amongst tools and methods of reflective design are information technologies that are defined not only in terms of activities but also as semiotic and meaning-making technologies that open new spaces for representation and reflection. These technologies can support a design practice that consists of stepping back to gain a different perspective, looking at alternative options, and discovering the embedded values. Here information and communication technologies (ICT) are not only considered as a field that is being shaped by multiple actors, but as design tools, and somehow a metaphor for the design goal: to “denaturalize” activities and formats to be able to lay new foundations for a design project."[ The In-Discipline of Design: Bridging the Gap Between Humanities and Engineering, Annie Gentes (auth.), 2017]

05. "This part of design is shared with engineers. The model of design in this context is also specific and relies on the “project”, a temporal division of work. I think that creators, whatever their field, are always caught between these two conceptions of the design activity, and often tend to polarize between the two poles: holistic reasoning/sequential reasoning in relation to their specific training and goal. Because of my background, and because I found that extensive research had been done on the concept of “project of design”,11 I have focused more on the holistic dimension of design."[ The In-Discipline of Design: Bridging the Gap Between Humanities and Engineering, Annie Gentes (auth.), 2017]

06. "Doing so means switching from a temporal, chronological, model of the design project to a spatial, topological, model of design and to look at how the expression “design space” can be interpreted as a “matrix”, as the French philosopher of design 4 Some pictures of famous artists’ studios can be found on this website: http://www. artistsandillustrators. co. uk/news/Buildings-Architecture/530/famous-artists-studios 5 See for instance, in Paris, http://www. lelieududesign. com/la-materiautheque-materio 6 Hockney (2006)."[ The In-Discipline of Design: Bridging the Gap Between Humanities and Engineering, Annie Gentes (auth.), 2017]

07. "There is, therefore, a double need to understand the properties of these reflective artifacts: first to understand these technologies to better design them, second to understand how they offer a design space with tools and metaphors to think about design and conception properly. More generally speaking, media offer an autonomous and reflexive material that help designers invent new aesthetics. In the Third Chapter, I contrast the sociology of use and the engineering research perspectives on the “user”."[ The In-Discipline of Design: Bridging the Gap Between Humanities and Engineering, Annie Gentes (auth.), 2017]

08. "The fifth line gives a succinct viewpoint of the disciplines that are primarily concerned. Though a simplification of what different Fig. 2. 4 Overview interactive/reflective paradigms 40 Rheingold (2000). 42 2 From Interactive Design to Reflective Design disciplines bring into analysis and design, the framework highlights methodologies and concepts that are involved (Fig. 2. 4). 2. 5  esigning for Reflection: Two Use Cases in Distributed D Networks While the first three examples described completed artifacts and their critical standpoints, the following two examples focus on the design process and show how the plane of representation was crucial."[ The In-Discipline of Design: Bridging the Gap Between Humanities and Engineering, Annie Gentes (auth.), 2017]

09. "None of the qualities are unique in themselves, but their particular combination goes a long way in delineating digital encyclopaedias as a possible genre of digital designs. Jonas Löwgren 400 To summarize, I view interaction design as a ﬁeld in which there is potential for a knowledge-constructing design culture to evolve. Such a design culture requires the participation of designers, critics, and researchers in the ongoing construction and reconstruction of interpersonal design knowledge. Articulating use qualities of digital designs may be a step in that direction, provided the aesthetic dimensions of good use are also recognized outside the rather exclusive ﬁeld of digital arts."[Aesthetic Computing, Paul A. Fishwick, 2006]

10. "2. 12 ICD Institute for Computational Design (Prof. Achim Menges). ITKE Institute of Building Structures and Structural Design (Prof. Jan Knippers). ICD/ITKE Research Pavilion 2012, Exterior view of pavilion, University of Stuttgart, 2012. © ICD/ITKE University of Stuttgart. 2. 13 Alisa Andrasek, Wonderlab, AD Research Cluster 1, B-Pro M. Arch Architectural Design, The Bartlett UCL, Morphocyte (2016). Variable property materials designed and fabricated through the simulation of the biological process of cellular division. Tutors: Alisa Andrasek, "[INPUT: Carpo__The_Second_Digital_Turn.pdf]