Created: 2025-12-23 01:51:18
Origin: searched
Selected: 22 Words are acoustical signs for concepts; concepts, however, are more or less definite image signs for often recurring and associated sensations, for groups of sensations. To understand one another, it is not enough that one use the same words; one also has to use the same words for the same species of inner experiences; in the end one has to have one’s experience in common. Therefore the human beings of one people understand one another better than those belonging to different peoples even if they employ the same language; or rather when human beings have long lived together under similar conditions (of climate, soil, danger, needs, and work), what results23 from this is people who “understand24 one another”—a people.[Nietzsche, Friedrich *Beyond Good & Evil*. Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group, 2010.]

--- Context List ---
01. "22 Words are acoustical signs for concepts; concepts, however, are more or less definite image signs for often recurring and associated sensations, for groups of sensations. To understand one another, it is not enough that one use the same words; one also has to use the same words for the same species of inner experiences; in the end one has to have one’s experience in common. Therefore the human beings of one people understand one another better than those belonging to different peoples even if they employ the same language; or rather when human beings have long lived together under similar conditions (of climate, soil, danger, needs, and work), what results23 from this is people who “understand24 one another”—a people."[Nietzsche, Friedrich *Beyond Good & Evil*. Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group, 2010.]

02. "But this view of transformation is more geometrical than might be desirable. Our purpose often will not be to learn how one strip could be generated from another by the application of translation rules, but rather how two similar strips were both generated from a common model and differ from each other in certain systematic ways. One might find it reasonable to speak of two performances of a play given by the same company on two successive nights, or two readings of the same part given by two different actors, or two varieties of American speech-male and female-and feel it awkward to speak of one version being a keying of another."[Goffman, Erving *Frame Analysis. An Essay on the Organization of Experience*. Northeastern University Press, 1986.]

03. "6. Note that the Piro, also speaking an Arawak language, give the word yaglu (cf. Yawalapíti yakulá) the meaning of “image. ” This for them refers to such things as figurative drawings, dolls, and photographs (Gow 1989). Notes to Pages 162–181 Fortis-final. indb 235 | 235 10/4/12 4:55:37 PM 7. My analysis of the relationship between sopalet and purpa is indebted to Viveiros de Castro’s analysis of the Yawalapíti concept of pitalatisi, which he translates as “form,” which entails a constant differentiation between symbol and referent, “which is up to a certain point submitted to the scheme archetypeactualization that marks the whole culture of the group” (1977: 122 n. 1)."[Fortis, Paolo *Kuna Art and Shamanism: An Ethnographic Approach*. University of Texas Press, 2013.]

04. "In such cases often a short etymological explanation is added in order to make users aware of the fact. Note that this did not affect the placing of these characters within the CCD, as 爿 and 黑 are to be considered as radicals and 犬 as series header. It is also interesting to note that in standard Chinese dictionaries 爿 and 黑 also function as radicals in respect to these characters. d) two meaning elements In quite a number of cases neither part indicates the sound, but the character is a compound ideograph; in other words, it has two meaning elements."[Van Amstel, Adrian *Chinese Character Dictionary: A New Approach to Arranging, Explaining and Looking Up Chinese Characters*. Paperback. Createspace Independent Publishing Platform, 2016.]

05. "When this activity is not actually occurring but only serving as a model for a keying, then one can think of the strip that results as exhibiting one transformation and two layers or laminations-the modeled after and the modeled, the copied and the copy-and can see the outer layer, the rim of the frame, as establishing the status in reality of the activity. Together these two layers-untransformed events and 156 STRUCTURAL ISSUES IN FABRICATIONS 157 their keyings-constitute a relatively simple '1ayering," one with two layers, not many: in a word, a layering that is shallow, not deep."[Goffman, Erving *Frame Analysis. An Essay on the Organization of Experience*. Northeastern University Press, 1986.]

06. "In support of tacit connectives, see the very interesting argument by John Robert Ross ("On Declarative Sentences," in Roderick A. Jacobs and Peter S. Rosenbaum, eds. , Readings in English TTansformational GTammaT [Waltham, Mass. : Ginn & Company, 1970], pp. 222-272) that every unadorned declarative sentence is to be analyzed as an embedded dependent clause of a "performative" clause containing ''I'' as the deleted noun phrase, "say" as the deleted verb in the verb phrase, and "you" as the deleted indirect object, the claim being that only by appealing to this deleted higher clause in the deep structure can certain surface constraints on the use of reflexive pronouns (and certain other locutions) be accounted for by grammatical rules."[Goffman, Erving *Frame Analysis. An Essay on the Organization of Experience*. Northeastern University Press, 1986.]

07. "39. The use of anatomic terms to refer to parts of objects is quite widespread among Amerindians. Erikson noted that the Matis often use the terms head, feet, bottom, and nose, which “are more apt to indicate a position, see a direction, than any formal resemblance between a part of the body and a part of the object described. . . . [T]hey point to an internal, sui generis, orientation, because they enable a description of the directionality intrinsic to the morphology of the object” (1989: 289–290). See also Isacsson 1993: 124–127 on the Emberá concept of vaginal nose and its synesthetic implications."[Fortis, Paolo *Kuna Art and Shamanism: An Ethnographic Approach*. University of Texas Press, 2013.]

08. "It is also surely of interest that when medieval theologians coin the term intuitus (which in classical Latin was limited to descriptions of vision) they use it to speak about a nondiscursive knowing that particularly characterizes the divine cognition of angels. 49 This is the avenue by which the term enters the modern European languages. Thomas Aquinas proposes that angels understand things, via intuition, all in a 47 See Jennifer Mensch, “Intuition and Nature and Kant and Goethe,” European Journal of Philosophy 19 (2011): 431–53."[Struck, Peter T. *Divination and Human Nature: A Cognitive History of Intuition in Classical Antiquity*. Princeton University Press, 2016.]

09. "Even so, despite this injunction, the ratio eleven to four  (undecim ad quattuor) is clearly an error for eleven to fourteen (undecim ad  quattuordecim), as a simple comparative drawing would have shown [Alberti 1988: 219  (VII, x)]; see pp. 211–212 in the present volume for more details. The second reason is that  Alberti placed a higher value on written descriptions than on images. He was not alone in  this; various other authors beginning in antiquity also favoured words over images (cf. , for  example, [Furlan 2006: 207] and [Alberti 2007: 21])."[INPUT: Williams et al. - 2010 - The Mathematical Works of Leon Battista Alberti.pdf]

10. "See also the discussion which follows, in which these authors review the relevant literature. Although I will question whether the word ‘space’ is always as phenomenologically neutral as these social scientists maintain, their distinction is helpful to the extent that it signals the intermediary of a mental process by which our physical habitat is invested with significance. Space, stone, and spirit:the meaning of place 291 Like Csikszentmihalyi and Rochberg-Halton, in studying the meaning of things—in this case, of places—I am concerned not merely with ascertaining the significance of objects and spaces but also how these meanings serve what for these circumstances can aptly be termed the construction of the self."[Golding, Dr Sue, and Sue Golding *The Eight Technologies of Otherness*. Routledge, 1997.]

11. "Metaphor Metaphor can be understood as a figure of speech (a nonliteral use of language) that says one thing is another or, in the form of simile, as a figure of speech that says one thing is like another. In both cases, the writer is trying to explain one thing by means of comparing it to another, more familiar thing. One example of the metaphor that makes a comparison by saying one thing is another comes from E. B. White’s “Once More to the Lake” (p. 404): “It took a cool nerve, because if you threw the switch a twentieth of a second too soon you would catch the flywheel when it still had speed enough to go up past center, and the boat would leap ahead, charging bull-fashion at the dock” (par."[Cohen, Samuel *50 Essays: A Portable Anthology*. 5th ed. Bedford / St. Martin’s, 2016.]

12. "EE 1229a25; NE 1145b11; Cat. 10a1; see also the noun form at Part. an. 651a4). 14 Siwek (1963) is surely right in his note ad loc. : “eorum ‘impetuosities,’ i. e. intensities imagine. ” On melancholy, see Philip J. van der Eijk, “Aristotle on Melancholy,” in van der Eijk (2005), 139– 68. Aristotle on Foresight through Dreams • 101 says it is a skill of seeing likenesses (the same quality he claims for those good at metaphor). 15 The dream image is broken up by other movements in the soul and so is fragmented, like a reflection in rippled water, and a distinct skill is required to reassemble it."[Struck, Peter T. *Divination and Human Nature: A Cognitive History of Intuition in Classical Antiquity*. Princeton University Press, 2016.]

13. "Let me offer one small example. “Poems of Akhziv,” a vivid cycle of erotic poems written in the 1970s, has been rendered in English by three different translators. One poem begins startlingly with the words (each of the three versions uses the same sexual term) “I have learned to relate to your cunt as to a face. ” But the Hebrew word Amichai uses, ‘ervah, is by no means an obscenity—modern Hebrew has a monosyllabic word, borrowed from the Arabic, that would correspond to the English four-letter term, but Amichai invariably avoids it."[Amichai, Yehuda, and Robert Alter *The Poetry of Yehuda Amichai*. Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2017.]

14. "It also had the radical for rice, 米, added to it, creating the character 糅, also with the same sound, but in this case the meaning was changed to 'mix, mingle'. Characters created in this way are called phonetic-semantic (i. e. sound-meaning) compounds, and the sound-element is called the phonetic, while the meaning element is called the radical. Some of these phonetic-semantic compounds had in their turn a radical attached to it, creating characters with two or more radicals."[Van Amstel, Adrian *Chinese Character Dictionary: A New Approach to Arranging, Explaining and Looking Up Chinese Characters*. Paperback. Createspace Independent Publishing Platform, 2016.]

15. "The community of name (koinonia) will be supported by the economic relation (skhesis) that links the word, the thing signified, and the image. The image creates a bond that is neither natural nor artificial between the signifier and the signified. This bond is economic, that is, of a relative similitude. When one worships one God of God, one confesses to the proper character of the hypostases and one remains faithful to the model of divine monarchy, without therefore scattering the mystery of God in severalpieces."[Mondzain, Marie-Jose *Image, Icon, Economy: The Byzantine Origins of the Contemporary Imaginary (Cultural Memory in the Present)*. 2004.]