Created: 2025-11-25 19:34:28
Origin: suggested
Selected: The problem is that habits, dispositions, and aptitudes all seem to have extra-perceptual existence. Leibniz’s most common metaphor for innate ideas – veins in marble – also suggests that innate ideas are outside perception. The latter is, however, a metaphor, and the question is how strongly to take it. A block of marble is used metaphorically by Leibniz in another telling sense – as an example of a being by aggregation, thus not a real substance. The metaphor of veins in marble, or spatial patterns in an aggregate, can only be loosely applied to a simple being that has no parts, is a true unity, and is not extended.[Perkins, Franklin *Leibniz and China: A Commerce of Light*. Cambridge University Press, 2004.]

--- Context List ---
01. "The problem is that habits, dispositions, and aptitudes all seem to have extra-perceptual existence. Leibniz’s most common metaphor for innate ideas – veins in marble – also suggests that innate ideas are outside perception. The latter is, however, a metaphor, and the question is how strongly to take it. A block of marble is used metaphorically by Leibniz in another telling sense – as an example of a being by aggregation, thus not a real substance. The metaphor of veins in marble, or spatial patterns in an aggregate, can only be loosely applied to a simple being that has no parts, is a true unity, and is not extended."[Perkins, Franklin *Leibniz and China: A Commerce of Light*. Cambridge University Press, 2004.]

02. "It is therefore important to look at ideas from an externalist point of view and not to assume that the mind is encapsulated, merely bringing about ideas that are internally fully given. This point can be illustrated with a thought experiment that is often adduced in contemporary debates. On this earth we are in contact with horses, which have a certain structure and cause in us certain affections that go along with ideas of horses. Should we live on a twin earth where there are twin horses, animals that are quite similar to horses but have a different structure, we would be affected by twin horses and would therefore have ideas of twin horses, not of horses."[(Ed.), Michael Della Rocca *The Oxford Handbook Of Spinoza*. Hardcover. Oxford University Press, 2018.]

03. "We may therefore describe all of these represented causes as elements of an idea’s minimal representational content. But it is also reasonable to say that some ideas of internal affections—​particularly those that constitute the relatively distinct and conscious products of sophisticated sensory systems—​have in addition what we might call primary representational content. This primary content for the idea may be selected or determined from among the many elements of its minimal content by the manner in which the idea directs or influences self-​preservatory activity."[(Ed.), Michael Della Rocca *The Oxford Handbook Of Spinoza*. Hardcover. Oxford University Press, 2018.]

04. "In other words our experience of ourselves as being a material object among others essentially permeates our sensory experience of things in general. To try to imagine experience in general free from self-awareness is like trying to imagine seeing something, but not from any point of view, or tasting something or feeling warmth, but in or at no part of the body. It was suggested in Volume I that this sensory self-awareness is bound up both with our capacity for physical action and with the having of sensory images."[Ayers, Michael *Locke (Arguments of the Philosophers)*. New edition. Routledge, 1993.]

05. "Thus it is not normally as a result of inference, habitual association or the like (although in a few peculiar cases of disorientation some sort of inference may be to the point) that I judge the object I feel with my hand to be the object I see. Quite simply, I perceive it as the same: the identity enters into the intentional content of sensation, and of my total sensory ‘field’. In general, too, we are aware of the place or point of view from which we see things. Our visual awareness of things in space, including what we can see of our own body, involves some awareness of the relation which they bear to the part of us from which we see."[Ayers, Michael *Locke (Arguments of the Philosophers)*. New edition. Routledge, 1993.]

06. "This concept formed part of an overall generalizing of our perceptual systems. Descartes’ generalized concept of representation, which I discussed in the previous section, was intended to make sense of the fact that much of our perceptual experience represents, without offering resemblances of things. Now, when it comes to those perceptual ideas that can be resemblances— ^the ideas of the mathematical properties of perceived bodies— we see him generalizing along this axis as well. Artificial organs can, under a great many conditions, yield us resembling images, where our natural organs fail."[(ed.), Stephen Gaukroger *Descartes: Philosophy, Mathematics and Physics*. Brighton, Sussex: Harvester, 1980.]

07. "For when there is the opposite perception at the same time, the mind is called to reﬂection; in these cases perception ‘shows33 one thing no more than its opposite’. 29 Burnyeat (2000), 55, is surely right to suggest that whether a given expression is metaphorical in these passages of the Republic may well be a matter of perspective, in the sense that something may look metaphorical when viewed from an early stage in one’s philosophical (mathematical) education, but turn out to be literal when viewed from a more advanced stage of philosophical understanding."[McCabe, Mary Margaret *Platonic Conversations*. Hardcover. Oxford University Press, USA, 2015.]

08. "A difficulty here is that ‘perception’ and even ‘sensation’ might raise the same problem of interpretation as ‘idea’, but occasionally their status is clear. Pleasure and pain, for example, are unequivocally said to be not only simple ideas, but also ‘constitutions of the mind’. 118 As for the other Cartesian meaning of ‘idea’, if we consider, for example, Locke’s account of knowledge as the perception of a relation between ideas, it is overwhelmingly attractive to take ideas here to be, not modifications or ‘constitutions’ of the mind, but the intentional objects of such modifications."[Ayers, Michael *Locke (Arguments of the Philosophers)*. New edition. Routledge, 1993.]

09. "Experience can at best tell us that a shape is, say, square, but not why its being square entails its having of necessity internal angles amounting to 360° (the analysis of the wax experiment, in the Second Meditation, sharpens the problem). To have experience of such notions is one thing, to be able to conceive their individual nature is entirely another. Similarly, space can be understood phenomenally as an element in our experience of material bodies, and scientifically as a subject of pure geometry."[Christofidou, Andrea *Self, Reason, and Freedom: A New Light on Descartes’ Metaphysics*. Routledge, 2016.]

10. "We are, in other words, acquainted with no such entity as a necessary connection in ordinary experience, and there is therefore no necessary connection among the ideas that we use to describe whatever is given to us in experience. This argument from acquaintance derives from Locke. Locke considers the regular activities of external substances. These include the production of the ideas of the secondary qualities, the simple ideas of red, sweet, and so on."[Wilson, Fred *The Logic and Methodology of Science in Early Modern Thought: Seven Studies*. University of Toronto Press, 1999.]

11. "Landscapes of contemplation will continue to be designed speciﬁcally as such, but it also seems clear that strategies for inducing a contemplative state can become a part of other settings, such as schools, parks, prisons, health care centers, and corporate settings, among others. Landscapes designed with the intention of assisting contemplative experiences have the potential make a powerful, positive contribution to contemporary life, contributing not just to our aesthetic and intellectual enrichment, but also to our physical and psychological health."[Krinke, Rebecca *Contemporary Landscapes of Contemplation*. 2005.]

12. "The annex theory of sensation that Hartshorne opposes implies that sense data are neutrally received and later have aﬀect dumped on top of them. Likewise, some people think of representational art as a transparent medium through which we can neutrally see the world. Unreﬂective approaches to realist painting and to photography are especially prone to the adoption of this mistaken view."[Dombrowski, Daniel A. *Divine Beauty: The Aesthetics of Charles Hartshorne*. Vanderbilt University Press, 2004.]

13. "Morality consists in an informed, active and creative responsiveness to other persons, and through and with these to the whole evolving fabric of reality. ²⁷ But it is suﬃcient to note at this point the way in which the Intersubjective First position in developmental psychology oﬀers an explanation and secures an understanding of morality (and of art also) as a native property of persons and, in so far as personal beings are creatively and increasingly involved in the whole fabric of reality, secures also a growing understanding of that evolving, continuously created reality as itself a moral process – a growing understanding which should be increasingly important to ecologists."[Mackey, James P. *The Critique of Theological Reason*. 2000.]

14. "By Mitchell’s account, Gormley oﬀers the viewer “architecture as sculpture as drawing,” a 273 274 sliding across media that includes the scalar dimensions of each, and can also be seen as “ways of world making. ” Attenuation among fractional dimensions (signaled by placing the various media on a continuum through the term as) is to some extent the result of scalar experience. The taut relationship of intermediate dimensions creates experiences with media that are necessarily permeable; using fractal vision, we see each medium through or as the next."[Higgins, Hannah *The grid book*. MIT Press, 2009.]

15. "Suppose I strain my introspection in the hope of discovering it; the picture (for such a method can never yield anything but pictures) may be transformed in two ways, to which two schools of recent literary psychology are respectively wedded. One transformation turns experience, intensely gaped at, into a mere strain, a mere sense of duration or tension; the other transformation unravels experience into an endless labyrinth of dreams. In the one case, experience loses its articulation to the extent of becoming a dumb feeling; and it is hard to see how, if one dumb undifferentiated feeling is the only reality, the illusion of many events and the intuition of many pictures could be grafted upon it."[Coleman, Martin A. *The Essential Santayana: Selected Writings*. Indiana University Press, 2009.]