Created: 2025-11-03 20:29:29
Origin: searched
Selected: This is why I have chosen to reproducea view ofSalisbury Cathedral vaunted as an example of homogeneous work. Homogeneous work would seem to mean to Mr. Bond work of the same style, belonging to the same period. Again the underlying idea of tidiness and general conformity to evident rule reveals itself, to the damage of that higher and more difficult type of conformity to plastic law which enabled French architects to marry successfully styles separated by centuries. I have no hesitation in writing what I have just written, for Mr.[The art and craft of drawing, Vernon Blake, 1927]

--- Context List ---
01. " ipulation of the final artefact, the purpose of preliminary studies  being to give sufficient definition for final work to begin, not to  provide a complete determination in advance, as in architectural  drawing. The resulting displacement of effort and indirectness of  access still seem to me to be distinguishing features of conventional  architecture considered as a visual art, but whether always and neces?sarily disadvantageous is another question. Two divergent definitions of the possibilities for architecture  follow from the recognition of this displacement."[INPUT: [AA Files 1986-sum iss. 12] Robin Evans - TRANSLATIONS FROM DRAWING TO BUILDING (1986) [10.2307_29543512] - libgen.li.pdf]

02. "There is something stony in a work of architecture, wooden in a carving, colored in a painting, spoken in a linguistic work, sonorous in a musical composition. The thingly element is so irremovably present in the art work that we are compelled rather to say conversely that the architectural work is in stone, the carving is in wood, the painting in color, the linguistic work in speech, the musical composition in sound. "Obviously," it will be replied. No doubt. But what is this self-evident thingly element in the work of art?"[Poetry, Language, Thought , Martin Heidegger, 2001]

03. "We are now confronted by a remarkable result of our considerations—if it still deserves to be called a result at all. Two points become clear: First: the dominant thing-concepts are inadequate as means of grasping the thingly aspect of the work. Second: what we tried to treat as the most immediate reality of the work, its thingly substructure, does not belong to the work in that way at all. As soon as we look for such a thingly substructure in the work, we have imwittingly taken work as equipment, to which we then also ascribe a superstructure supposed to contain its artistic quality."[Poetry, Language, Thought , Martin Heidegger, 2001]

04. "This insight and understanding are brought about by the arts in general on the plane of feeling and emotion, whence “art is the creation of forms symbolic of 612 The Contemporary Period human feeling. ”But music in particular is the presentational form par excellence, for its “tonal structures . . . bear a close logical similarity to the forms of human feeling. ” This analysis, begun in Philosophy in a New Key, is extended in Langer’s later work, Feeling and Form. For Langer, then, the human being is both receiver and communicator."[Historical introduction to philosophy, Hakim, Albert, 2016]

05. "Art works universally display a thingly character, The Origin of the Work of Art $0 39 albeit in a wholly distinct way. The attempt to interpret this thingcharacter of the work with the aid of the usual thing-concepts failed—not only because these concepts do not lay hold of the thingly feature, but because, in raising the question of its thingly substructure, we force the work into a preconceivedframeworkby which we obstruct our own access to the work-being of the work. Nothing can be discovered about the thingly aspect of the work so long as the pure self-subsistence of the work has not distincdy displayed itself."[Poetry, Language, Thought , Martin Heidegger, 2001]

06. "This is why I have chosen to reproducea view ofSalisbury Cathedral vaunted as an example of homogeneous work. Homogeneous work would seem to mean to Mr. Bond work of the same style, belonging to the same period. Again the underlying idea of tidiness and general conformity to evident rule reveals itself, to the damage of that higher and more difficult type of conformity to plastic law which enabled French architects to marry successfully styles separated by centuries. I have no hesitation in writing what I have just written, for Mr."[The art and craft of drawing, Vernon Blake, 1927]

07. "If all art is in essence poetry, then the arts of architecture, painting, sculpture, and music must be traced back to poesy. That is pure arbitrariness. It certainly is, as long as we mean that those arts are varieties of the art of language, if it is permissible to characterize poesy by that easily misinterpretable title. But poesy is only The Origin of the Work of Art $) 71 one mode of the lighting projection of truth, i. e. , of poetic composition in this wider sense. Nevertheless, the linguistic work, the poem in the narrower sense, has a privileged position in the domain of the arts."[Poetry, Language, Thought , Martin Heidegger, 2001]

08. "It thus seems advisable to define the nature of creative work in terms of its craft aspect. But reference to the linguistic usage of the Greeks, with their experience of the facts, must give us pause. However usual and convincing the references may be to the Greek practice of naming craft and art by the same name, techne, it nevertheless remains oblique and superficial; for techne signifies neither craft nor art, and not at all the technical in our present-day sense; it never means a kind of practical performance."[Poetry, Language, Thought , Martin Heidegger, 2001]

09. "In fine art the art itself is not beautiful, but is called so because it produces the beautiful. Truth, in contrast, belongs to logic. Beauty, however, is reserved for aesthetics. But perhaps the proposition that art is truth setting itself to 36 C& Poetry, Language, Thought work intends to revive the fortunately obsolete view that art is an imitation and depiction of reality?The reproduction of what exists requires, to be sure, agreement with the actual being, adaptation to it; the Middle Ages called it adaequatio; Aristotle already spoke of homoiosis."[Poetry, Language, Thought , Martin Heidegger, 2001]

10. "To be sure. The distinction of matter and form is the conceptual The Origin of the Work of Art $j) 27 schema which is used, in the greatest variety of ways, quite generally for all art theory and aesthetics. This incontestable fact, however, proves neither that the distinction of matter and form is adequately founded, nor that it belongs originally to the domain of art and the art work. Moreover, the range of application of this pair of concepts has long extended far beyond thefieldof aesthetics. Form and content are the most hackneyed concepts under which anything and everything may be subsumed."[Poetry, Language, Thought , Martin Heidegger, 2001]