Created: 2025-12-23 18:53:05
Origin: searched
Selected: This vision, founded entirely upon traditional concepts, as we have noted, is developed in his later thought into an unprecedentedly dynamic picture of the earth and its waters—in the short, middle, and very long terms. Looking at the mechanisms of the earth as a whole, such natural processes result in continuous ﬂux that permeates every part of nature. In theory, since every element ‘desires’ to return to its due place in the order of things, the set-up should be moving towards a position of stasis, in which the spheres of earth, water, air, and ﬁre settle into neatly concentric zones.[Kemp, Martin *Leonardo: Revised Edition*. Revised. Oxford University Press, 2011.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Let’s take a simpler example from the Indo-European languages: Slavic languages demonstrate that they have no need of articles. In Czech, when one wants to stress that one has a single thing, one simply uses the word one (jeden, which, using the accusative form to imply possession), becomes jednoho in the following example, I have a friend (Mám jednoho přitele). Here we are insisting on the singularity of the friend. But most of the time, the concept of singularity is irrelevant because it is self-evident that we are concerned with one sapir 29 single noun."[Underhill, James *Humboldt, Worldview, and Language*. 2009.]

02. "This vision, founded entirely upon traditional concepts, as we have noted, is developed in his later thought into an unprecedentedly dynamic picture of the earth and its waters—in the short, middle, and very long terms. Looking at the mechanisms of the earth as a whole, such natural processes result in continuous ﬂux that permeates every part of nature. In theory, since every element ‘desires’ to return to its due place in the order of things, the set-up should be moving towards a position of stasis, in which the spheres of earth, water, air, and ﬁre settle into neatly concentric zones."[Kemp, Martin *Leonardo: Revised Edition*. Revised. Oxford University Press, 2011.]

03. "The relationship between these two levels of analysis presents important problems. One cannot describe the structure of an event without deciding what each slot in the event structure can be filled with-decisions about "same" and "different" at another level. Just as to say that "S - NP + VP" assumes decisions about what counts as an NP and a VP, so to say that "Instructional sequence [in a lesson] Initiation + Reply + Evaluation" (Mehan, 1979, p. 75) assumes decisions about membership in those categories."[(auth.), Ashley Montagu, and Bruce Bain (eds.) *The Sociogenesis of Language and Human Conduct*. Springer US, 1983.]

04. "The former included plants or animals. Animals fell into the categories of aquatic, aerial, or terrestrial. Dalgarno placed human beings in a different category and then differentiated between terrestrial creatures with a cloven hoof and a single hoof, like a horse or “nηkv,” in Dalgarno’s vocabulary. Word order rules denoted when a word was a noun, an adjective, or an adverb, and special suffi xes indicated verb tenses."[Garvía, Roberto *Esperanto and Its Rivals: The Struggle for an International Language*. University of Pennsylvania Press, 2015.]

05. "It is not unusual to define communication as a transmission of information. This view is patently one-sided in more than one sense. First, it stresses the one-directional act of sending or, reciprocally, of receiving something. Second, it refers to this something in terms of a given commodity, somewhat like the transfer of a box from one person to another. This kind of description may be appropriate for a rote memory type of knowledge, such as in telephone directories, where thousands of entries are collected in one source from which they are retrieved as the occasion demands."[(auth.), Ashley Montagu, and Bruce Bain (eds.) *The Sociogenesis of Language and Human Conduct*. Springer US, 1983.]

06. "It is in this sense that one can comprehend the apparent contradiction between different types of artifacts of cultures (especially early ones): on the one hand, tools for further work and on the other hand, artifacts which seem to be so far removed from the sphere of productive work that they seem to be merely aesthetic. But it must be remembered that all artifacts are, from the beginning, consequent to the initial abstraction from the immediacy of need satisfaction."[(auth.), Ashley Montagu, and Bruce Bain (eds.) *The Sociogenesis of Language and Human Conduct*. Springer US, 1983.]

07. "Our categories are often revised and refined by thought and the way we conceive things cannot be considered to be rigidly limited by language (though we might find it easier to define things when suitable distinctions are readily available). English, for example, offers a distinction between purple and violet, where French uses only one term violet. This may make us more sensitive to different shades of the colour. However, a visit to any decorating or DIY store throughout the world will suffice to remind us that all languages can invent a multitude of distinctions between different colours and shades when they are required."[Underhill, James *Humboldt, Worldview, and Language*. 2009.]

08. "England’s Roger Bacon (1214?–94), author of one of the earliest speculative grammars, wrote that ‘Grammar is, in its substance, one and the same in all 152 . a h i s t o r y o f l a n g u a g e languages and varies in these only accidentally’. (Theoretical linguists have been seaching for a ‘universal grammar’ ever since. )Semantics was particularly addressed in an attempt to define the difference between a word’s significātiō (meaning) and its suppositiō (relational substitution)."[Fischer, Steven Roger *History of Language (Reaktion Books - Globalities)*. Reaktion Books, 1999.]

09. "The need for overt specification of movement elements in sign structure has been widely questioned (Hayes, 1993; Stack, 1988; Uyechi, 1996). In an analysis of ASL syllable structure (Corina, 1996), I proposed that dynamic elements of ASL phonology have a prosodic status in underlying representations. In this analysis, I argued that path movement could be treated as an underlying moraic location element. For example, a location which in underlying representation is moraic will manifest as a movement toward or away from that specific location in surface representation (for details, see Corina, 1996)."[Emmorey, Karen, and Harlan Lane (Editors) *The Signs of Language Revisited : An Anthology to Honor of Ursula Bellugi and Edward Klima*. Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Inc., 2000.]

10. "Somewhat ironically, a well-worn Iberian framework seems to have reemerged in this context. Peter Wade recently concluded that “purity might appear an anachronistic concept, but insofar as it stands in for ‘racial difference,’ one can still detect its magnetic field in constant tension with ‘mixture. ’ ”24 The colonial administrative interest in official categories and combinations did not completely dissolve with the rise of the nation-state. Abandoned concepts like calidad and caste, once the obsession of scientific-minded bureaucrats, may yet take on renewed relevance through their commonalities with DNA testing and genetic science."[Gharala, Norah L. A. *Taxing Blackness: Free Afromexican Tribute in Bourbon New Spain*. Tuscaloosa: The University of Alabama Press, 2019.]

11. "For a research monograph published in the early twenty-first-century scholarly landscape, striving to be something other than monolingual would be disingenuous. Like most books published since 1800, this study has had to find some provisional delight in rehearsing monolingualism, reiterating it, and performing it, in hopes of rendering its implications audible, legible, and sensible. Whereas a history of an invention—or even a genealogy of an invention—must first imagine the world without the invented device, term, system, or element, this book cannot sustain such a leap, precisely because of its own acutely monolingual form and format."[Gramling, David *The Invention of Monolingualism*. Bloomsbury Academic, 2016.]

12. "Table 13. 1 additionally shows statistically significant differences between the second and third columns, and between the fourth and fifth columns: two stars represents significance at the p £ 0. 01 level, one star represents significance at the p £ 0. 05 level. It is clearly apparent that the majority of the learning methods are significantly different between columns two and three, i. e."[Coleman, Hywel, and Lynne Cameron (Editors) *Change and Language: Papers From the Annual Meeting of the British Association for Applied Linguistics Held At the University of Leeds, September 1994*. Mulitlingual Matters, Ltd., 1996.]

13. "The individual word and the individual 34 humboldt, worldview and language phoneme (speech sound, in Sapir’s vocabulary, Lee 1996: 44) only took on meaning within context in its interaction with other words and sounds. For Sapir, each point was a point in a pattern. Sapir used a dance metaphor to explain this when he claimed that just as a movement of the foot only becomes a step once it is integrated into a dance, so a ‘sound that is not unconsciously felt as “placed” with reference to other sounds is no more a true element of speech ."[Underhill, James *Humboldt, Worldview, and Language*. 2009.]

14. "Frösén (1974)’s claim that Greek koine was the product of pidginization and creolization is given short shrift by Horrocks (1997: 33). Attic and koine cannot be treated as anything other than variants. There is no sense of the linguistic trauma all pidgins go through, in terms of loss of vocabulary, ‘simplification’ of morphology and phonology, and so on. 2. For a discussion of the history of the era and its cultural effects, see Green (1990). 3. There were unsuccessful attempts to produce a Doric koine (Horrocks 1997: 40–1); at one point, the foothold the Ptolemies had in Greece – in Rhodes and other Doric islands – used a Doric variety in its Chancery. 4. These suggestions are in line with the pompous and hypercorristic Latin spoken by the plutocratic freedman Trimalchio in Petronius’ Satyricon (mid first century CE). Trimalchio obviously has a slavery-derived form of Popular Latin as the basis of his idiolect; his literacy and social climbing have produced its grotesque features. 5."[Millar, Robert McColl *Authority and Identity: A Sociolinguistic History of Europe Before the Modern Age*. Palgrave Macmillan, 2010.]

15. "Clamor, discourse, humming, murmurs, muttering, railing, rants, roaring, swearing, and whispers: Each can be mapped along an earthly plane locating it in respect to civil society. Each can also be located along a spiritual plane. This three-dimensional aural space defined orderly -- and disorderly -- societies in seventeenth-century English North America. After mapping some of that space, this chapter uses a single case study -- that of the “ranting Quakers” -- to explore the centers and edges of three such spaces, each overlapping the other: one British, one Puritan, and one Quaker."[Rath, Richard Cullen *How Early America Sounded*. 2019.]