Created: 2025-12-26 17:58:50
Origin: suggested
Selected: It will often play a role in introducing daylight into a space and modifying some of the qualities of light. Success with the big picture is achieved where structure relates to all aspects of the design, down to the smallest structural detail. Within each area of architecture the contribution of structure can take one of many possible forms. Consider the large number of examples illustrating different structural details or ways that structure interacts with daylight.[Charleson, Andrew *Structure As Architecture: A Source Book For Architects And Structural Engineers*. Architectural Press, 2005.]

--- Context List ---
01. "It will often play a role in introducing daylight into a space and modifying some of the qualities of light. Success with the big picture is achieved where structure relates to all aspects of the design, down to the smallest structural detail. Within each area of architecture the contribution of structure can take one of many possible forms. Consider the large number of examples illustrating different structural details or ways that structure interacts with daylight."[Charleson, Andrew *Structure As Architecture: A Source Book For Architects And Structural Engineers*. Architectural Press, 2005.]

02. "8. 37). Drawn to the light, the eye follows the lines of brightness. Their patterning provides a welcome visual alternative to that of the orthogonal structural layout. S UMMARY Structure and light are both indispensable and interdependent elements of architecture. While structure may control light – its locations of entry into a building and its quantity and quality, the need for daylight inevitably determines structural form and detailing."[Charleson, Andrew *Structure As Architecture: A Source Book For Architects And Structural Engineers*. Architectural Press, 2005.]

03. "Light is the material par excellence with which he composed to create an area of shadowy light or intense brightness, depending on the particular moment. This most impalpable of materials is tamed and brought into the play of architectural forms, within which it is reserved a leading role. Light in fact takes the lead, qualifying the space and lending a spiritual dimension to the edifice."[Pauly, Daniele *Le Corbusier: the Chapel at Ronchamp*. Birkhäuser Architecture, 2008.]

04. "I compose with light”. 12 Light sources are used sparingly but their positioning is of capital importance when defining the interior volumes. In the chapel, the architect organised a spatial scenography, arranged in the most detailed fashion, within which light plays with the forms and the materials and animates the space by creating a different mood at different times of day and in different seasons."[Pauly, Daniele *Le Corbusier: the Chapel at Ronchamp*. Birkhäuser Architecture, 2008.]

05. "Because reflections develop as light Daly Genik Architects intended the sky- performance. Each foil can be designed to light installation to achieve an integration moves between the open layers, numerous affect the appearance and performance of design disciplines: structural engineering, iterations were required before the final of the roof, its visual transparency, and the architectural form, and graphic design."[Killory, Christine *Details in Contemporary Architecture*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2007.]

06. "The use of color to characterize realia, to enhance light effects and volumes, or even to imitate nature has also been found somewhat more interesting than its architectural functionthat is, as a means of connecting or separating elements within a structure, or of defining vertical and horizontal accents."[Ridgway, Brunilde S. *Prayers in Stone: Greek Architectural Sculpture (c. 600-100 B.C.E.)*. University of California Press, 1999.]

07. "But where do human beings fit into this picture?The first insight we had related to light. At the time, we were interested in light in regard to plants and photosynthesis, but also in the link light has to ecology and to ecosystems. Light is, of course, a very traditional aspect of architecture: modern architects talk about it constantly, just as Louis Kahn and Le Corbusier did before them."[Roesler, Sascha, and Madlen Kobi *The Urban Microclimate as Artifact: Towards an Architectural Theory of Thermal Diversity*. Birkhauser, 2018.]

08. "In addition to avoiding the overuse of artiﬁcial light and the heat generated by artiﬁcial light ﬁxtures, rooms with daylight also beneﬁt their occupants, who appreciate experiencing the dynamic qualities of natural light as it changes throughout the day. In general, light ﬁxtures are designed not to be noticed; however, designs that conceal the light source limit the perceptible qualities of ﬁre as light."[Yglesias, Caren *The Innovative Use of Materials in Architecture and Landscape Architecture: History, Theory and Performance*. McFarland, 2014.]

09. "Lighting design The process of integrating lighting systems within the structure of the building, the shape of the interior space, the function of the space, and the designer’s concept for lighting the space. Lighting efficiency A factor crucial to a light source’s acceptability for energy conservation. Incandescent and tungsten halogen are not efficient."[Ernest., Burden *Illustrated Dictionary of Architecture*. 2017.]

10. "Could this mark the end of toxic cleaning ﬂuids?Light and colour 45 Light and the built environment Physiologically, biologically and psychologically we are profoundly affected by the quality and quantity of light and colour determined by a building’s location, orientation and interior spaces. A room with windows on different elevations varies the interplay of colour, texture and reﬂected direct light: gentle rhythmic daylight can change our thought patterns and mood."[Saunders, Thomas *The Boiled Frog Syndrome: Your Health and the Built Environment*. 2002.]

11. "Existing buildings being upgraded for more sustainable operations might consider adding bundles of ﬁberoptic cables rather than inserting light wells (with numerous associated structural complications) to bring natural daylight to interior spaces. In the landscape, minimizing artiﬁcial light spill reduces excessive light pollution and is a goal of sustainably designed projects that support the “night skies” movement (Thompson and Sorvig 2008)."[Yglesias, Caren *The Innovative Use of Materials in Architecture and Landscape Architecture: History, Theory and Performance*. McFarland, 2014.]

12. "Sunlight determines human physical and mental well-being. Light is not just energy, it also triggers emotions and creates the perception of three dimensions and space by casting shade. Daylight Artificial Light From a building biology perspective, the quality of a building is defined by a lighting design that pursues daylight autonomy."[Ece, Nurgul *Building Biology: Criteria and Architectural Design*. Birkhauser, 2017.]

13. "Such a facade “indexes” the interior, though the elaboration of details may well disturb a facade’s basic indexical and, as such, denotative character, introducing not only formal but also connotative complexity and abundance. Of course, restraint may also carry connotative value, but that is an issue for a later chapter. This is clearly an ideal classiﬁcatory schema, since most Renaissance facades are semiotically composite and multiple."[Burroughs, Charles *The Italian Renaissance Palace Façade: Structures of Authority, Surfaces of Sense (Res Monographs in Anthropology and Aesthetics)*. 2002.]

14. "Thus space here is not conceived in the way architects usually think of it, as discrete units contained and defined by architectural structure. Rather, space in terms of spatial practice is much more pervasive; architectural division of space into “rooms” only operates on a particular level, and is in fact bound up in many larger systems. Architecture as building may even be thought of as part of this massive infrastructure tying spaces together, obvious examples being train stations and transportation systems, others being the electronic web linking banks and financial systems."[Coleman, Nathaniel *Imagining and Making the World: Reconsidering Architecture and Utopia*. Peter Lang, 2011.]

15. "Dark and light In our dreams and in reality the doorways we encounter are often ways from light into darkness or from darkness into light. The doorway is a frame for both, and an interface between them. light leaks into darkness; and a dark doorway can infect a light space. Light and dark have associations with understanding and superstition. Our association of doorways with transitions between light and dark is one of the most profound."[Unwin, Simon *Doorway*. Routledge, 2008.]

16. "On the upper levels a clear distinction between walling on the exterior and structure on the interior is apparent; what appears on the outside as the structural frame represents the actual load-bearing elements hidden within, but corrected. This use of “structure” as image also makes the “inﬁll” panel ambiguous: it is both integral with a wall and contained within a frame, which also means it is both heavy and lightweight."[Leatherbarrow, David, and Mohsen Mostafavi *Surface Architecture*. 2002.]

17. "Its architectural identity is found primarily in its internal form. The architectural vitality of belowground space is derived from its passive integration with the natural environment. The reciprocal interaction between structure and space in belowground dwellings differs from that of conventional aboveground habitats (Jing Qimin and Anthony Vacchione 1985, 173)."[coll. *Chinese Earth-sheltered Dwellings*. 2019.]

18. "Most HID lamps are very efficient, but have less desirable attributes. Lighting layout Lighting is an integral part of any architectural scheme and should be coordinated with the interior features. The primary elements of a lighting design consist of point sources, linear sources, planar sources, or volumetric sources. Volumetric sources provide ambient light; linear and planar sources provide general illumination, and point sources provide specific task lighting."[Ernest., Burden *Illustrated Dictionary of Architecture*. 2017.]

19. "Paris: Gallimard. Macdonald, Angus. 1998. Structural Design for Architecture. Oxford: Architectural Press. Macdonald, Angus. 2001. Structure and Architecture. Oxford: Architectural Press. Mainstone, Rowland J. 2001. Developments in Structural Form. Oxford: Architectural Press. Mark, Robert. 1990. Light, Wind, and Structure: The Mystery of the Master Builders, Cambridge: MIT Press."[Le Brun, Nicolas *Building knowledge, construction history. 2 vols. Proceedings of the 6th International Congress on Construction History (6ICCH 2018), July 9-13, 2018, Brussels, Belgium*. London: CRC Press (U.K.), 2018.]

20. "Get on the shady side of the street, wear sunglasses. As a result, the way we designed the atrium space was not to be a big open space with lots of light coming into it. It needed to be a selected shading system, something that filtered the light. In terms of light again: we went down to one of our first design team meetings, and it was quite late in the afternoon."[Scott, Andrew *Dimensions of Sustainability*. 2011.]

21. "Tied back to the vertical cores of the building, the tubular steel grid forms part of the structure, so that facade and structure are in effect a seamless entity. The grid acts as stiffening element, bracing the structure against seismic forces. Inside all is equally seamless. A meandering labyrinth of cool white space forms a suitably neutral canvas for the carefully orchestrated display of designer objects."[*The Architectural Review - Sellection  2002-2005* 2011.]

22. "But such cladding, while hiding materials, also reveals the structure, or at least an idealized version of it. Robin Evans has described the structure of the Lake Shore Drive apartments as having the appearance of just hanging there, denying anything to do with heaviness, as if disavowing the force of gravity. 53 The black surfaces of this “idealized” structure also contribute to a sense of lightness by dematerializing the weight they cover."[Leatherbarrow, David, and Mohsen Mostafavi *Surface Architecture*. 2002.]

23. "In addition to this, the underneath space is also sometimes permanently closed and covered with bricks or plywood. Besides affecting the eco-friendly nature of the system, the practice also wastes the utilization of the space under the buildings. Building in context In an architectural context, the external elements will influence the characteristics of the building in terms of its design (orientation, internal space layout, form and shape, etc. )"[Cotgrave, Alison., Michael Farragher, and Mike Riley *Building design, construction and performance in tropical climates*. Routledge, 2018.]

24. "Chapter 8 investigates the relationship between structure and light, both natural and artificial. It illustrates structure’s dual roles, as both a source and modifier of light, and introduces a number of different strategies designers use to maximize the ingress of light into buildings. Chapter 9 reflects on the symbolic and representational roles structure plays."[Charleson, Andrew *Structure As Architecture: A Source Book For Architects And Structural Engineers*. Architectural Press, 2005.]

25. "Depending upon its configuration, structure either inhibits or facilitates the ingress of light. In a building with perimeter structure that does not exclude natural light, structure relates to light in one of four modes – as a source of light where, for example, light passes through a roof truss to enter a space; to maximize light by minimizing the shadow effect of 168 STRUCTURE AS ARCHITECTURE structure; to modify light by reflecting and diffusing it; and occasionally, for light to affect our perception of structure."[Charleson, Andrew *Structure As Architecture: A Source Book For Architects And Structural Engineers*. Architectural Press, 2005.]