Created: 2025-12-30 01:59:56
Origin: suggested
Selected: But, as other essays here illustrate, 2 there are many circumstances in architecture where light takes on a more profound role than to sustain practical needs. Writing about the nature of light in Sigurd Lewerentz’s designs for the churches of St Mark’s at Björkhagen near Stockholm (1956–1964) and St Peter’s at Klippan (1962–1966) Colin St John Wilson has observed: Instead of the coloured radiance of the Gothic or the dazzling luminous white of the contemporary tradition from Bryggman to Leiviska, we are invited into the dark.[Hawkes, Dean *The Environmental Imagination: technics and poetics of the architectural environment*. Routledge, 2008.]

--- Context List ---
01. "But, as other essays here illustrate, 2 there are many circumstances in architecture where light takes on a more profound role than to sustain practical needs. Writing about the nature of light in Sigurd Lewerentz’s designs for the churches of St Mark’s at Björkhagen near Stockholm (1956–1964) and St Peter’s at Klippan (1962–1966) Colin St John Wilson has observed: Instead of the coloured radiance of the Gothic or the dazzling luminous white of the contemporary tradition from Bryggman to Leiviska, we are invited into the dark."[Hawkes, Dean *The Environmental Imagination: technics and poetics of the architectural environment*. Routledge, 2008.]

02. "Bland, vanilla colour schemes may be soporiﬁc and will tend to dull the senses. Dark muddy colours absorbing too much reﬂective light can create a feeling of gloom and depression; strong, intense primary colours can be visually too demanding, which will contribute to the symptoms of stress, fatigue and eye strain. When viewing the internal and external colour schemes in some of our modern buildings, the impression is that the architect selected the colours on the basis of subjective preferences or current fashion rather than a profound basic understanding of the effect of colour on our body, spirit and mind."[Saunders, Thomas *The Boiled Frog Syndrome: Your Health and the Built Environment*. 2002.]

03. "6. 16 St Peter’s, interior showing rooflights env_imag_fourk. qxd 5/7/07 9:29 am Page 139 itself changes with the passage of time. In contrast to the brightness that prevails in so much architecture of modern times, the literal and metaphorical darkness of this building uncannily makes the nature of light more apparent."[Hawkes, Dean *The Environmental Imagination: technics and poetics of the architectural environment*. Routledge, 2008.]

04. "Colour can also modify an architectural space or indeed completely transform it. In creating an atmosphere, colour plays an active part and was employed in this work by the architect to characterise certain points of the interior space: here colour is not a mere addition, but rather an element of the architecture itself, or indeed still more, for it is a functional component of the architecture, understood and employed for its spatial value and psychological impact."[Pauly, Daniele *Le Corbusier: the Chapel at Ronchamp*. Birkhäuser Architecture, 2008.]

05. "Of course this silence about working with light is common, as well, to other past eras when daylight played a central role in the conception of architecture. Perhaps this silence is generally due to the limits of language in describing or elucidating light, but in the case of Shakers it must equally stem from a communal ethos and way of life based on individual modesty and restraint."[Plummer, Henry *Stillness and Light: The Silent Eloquence of Shaker Architecture*. Indiana University Press, 2009.]

06. "12 Light is a primary source of energy and a form of electromagnetic radiation to which the human eye is supersensitive. In his book Colour Me Healing, Jack Allanach writes that Professor Popp, the German ‘father’ of the emerging science of photobiology, has now established that our cells communicate by low level light transmission. 13 Colour is the sensation produced when light of different wavelengths falls on the retina. Seeing is a chemical reaction driven by light. Physicists have disputed the nature of light since the earliest times, but Sir Isaac Newton (1642–1727) was the ﬁrst to recognise that white light is a mixture of coloured light that can be separated by refraction: this led to his corpuscular theory that light was a stream of bullet-like particles."[Saunders, Thomas *The Boiled Frog Syndrome: Your Health and the Built Environment*. 2002.]

07. "In addition to avoiding the overuse of artiﬁcial light and the heat generated by artiﬁcial light ﬁxtures, rooms with daylight also beneﬁt their occupants, who appreciate experiencing the dynamic qualities of natural light as it changes throughout the day. In general, light ﬁxtures are designed not to be noticed; however, designs that conceal the light source limit the perceptible qualities of ﬁre as light. Unlike ﬁre, artiﬁcial light ﬁxtures cannot offer perceptible experiences of heat, sound or smell to the senses, but when make visible, they offer a sense of orientation and direction."[Yglesias, Caren *The Innovative Use of Materials in Architecture and Landscape Architecture: History, Theory and Performance*. McFarland, 2014.]

08. "He adds: “intention: a human being, on the one hand, with a gestating idea, which he exteriorises for those who look, live and experience – in other words once again a human being, another human being and so on. Thus architecture needs a human language”. 11 For Le Corbusier it is indubitably light which links the terms of language expressed in an architectural work: “As you can imagine, I use light freely; light for me is the fundamental basis of architecture. I compose with light”. 12 Light sources are used sparingly but their positioning is of capital importance when defining the interior volumes."[Pauly, Daniele *Le Corbusier: the Chapel at Ronchamp*. Birkhäuser Architecture, 2008.]

09. "It is always tempting to use light colours in small, dark spaces, but this generally results in a dull, visually unappetizing room. Although a strong colour in such a space might seem counterintuitive, the results can be wonderfully theatrical and much more exciting than any attempt made to create light by painting a room white. Interconnecting rooms can benefit from a subtle, tone-on-tone approach and using colours that have equal strength is particularly harmonious. However, an entrance hall, especially one with little or no natural light, that is painted a dark colour exudes glamour at the point of arrival and means that every room leading off it feels bigger and brighter."[Studholme, Joa, and Charlotte Cosby *Farrow & Ball How to Decorate: Transform Your Home with Paint & Paper*. Mitchell Beazley, 2016.]

10. "Daylight, even though very variable, is the colour reference as all other forms of light change the perceived colour to a greater or lesser degree. Only daylight is thought to give true colours, even though the skylight (the diffuse component of daylight, see Glossary) varies from morning to evening and is further enhanced by sunlight. Special lamps, rather than daylight, are normally used for colour matching tasks."[Engineers, Chartered Institute of Building Services *Daylighting and Window Design (CIBSE Lighting Guide)*. Chartered Institution of Building Services Engineers, 1999.]

11. "A uni form level of light all around dis tracts the eye. Plan task lighting so it comes from the right or the left of the view er; you'll find reading and writing much easier if you sit with your side to the window, not facing it. When the walls and ceiling-as well as the light shaft of a skylight , if you have one-are painted in a light, nonglossy color, they become secondary light sources that spread the light evenly over an area. This multidirectional lighting is perfect for setting a relaxed mood in a room; the reduced intensity of the light produces no glare or sharp contrasts."[*Windows & skylights* Menlo Park, Calif: Lane Pub. Co, 1982.]

12. "1. 1. 2 Sunlight A key decision early in the design stage is the degree to which sunlight should be allowed to enter the building. This will depend on the type of activity within the building and the climate of its location. It is important to recognise the benefits of sunlight. Sunlight increases the overall level of light and helps to provide a constant variation in the intensity, pattern and colour of light (see Figure 1. 3). There is little doubt that entering a sunlit space is a pleasing experience and the interior of the great cathedrals, where the rays of the sun create shafts of light, is Figure 1. 3 Sunlight entering the Director’s Room, Glasgow Museum of Art."[Engineers, Chartered Institute of Building Services *Daylighting and Window Design (CIBSE Lighting Guide)*. Chartered Institution of Building Services Engineers, 1999.]

13. "However, even in a work such as this, for someone faced with an unfamiliar architectural element in a building or drawing, it still remains very difficult to find out its name and description. Moreover, as with Lever and Harris’s book, few such works cover twentieth- and twenty-first century architecture or, if they do, hardly at all. The reasons for this deficiency are not hard to understand. While Classical and Gothic architecture, with their relatively coherent repertoires of architectural detail, lend themselves to such classificatory expositions, much modern architecture, whose descriptive terms are in any case still in comparative flux, actively refuses or even attempts to negate ornamentation."[Hopkins, Owen *Reading Architecture  A Visual Lexicon*. Laurence King, 2012.]

14. "Includes bibliographical references and index. ISBN 978-0-253-35362-7 (cloth : alk. paper) 1. Shaker architecture. 2. Light in architecture. I. Title. NA710. P59 2009 720. 88'2898—dc22 2008051743 1 2 3 4 5 14 13 12 11 10 09 TO THE MEMORY OF Minor White TEACHER AND FRIEND For Patty WHO MAKES IT POSSIBLE TO DREAM God is a Fountain of perfect light. —Mother Ann Lee The light which is established in the heavens or invisible world, is closely connected with the light which is established on earth; and they who walk in the light which is manifest on earth, are compassed about by those who walk in the same light, although in the invisible world."[Plummer, Henry *Stillness and Light: The Silent Eloquence of Shaker Architecture*. Indiana University Press, 2009.]

15. "The colours have to succeed in three different light conditions, as well as work with varying styles of architecture. In the sitting area (left), they need to be strong enough to create an intimate atmosphere; in the simpler dining area (below left), light and modern enough to enhance the space; and in the kitchen, the right level of colour to complement the more embellished walls. ONE COLOUR OR ONE GROUP OF NEUTRALS Creating a flow through the home can, of course, be easily achieved with just one colour."[Studholme, Joa, and Charlotte Cosby *Farrow & Ball How to Decorate: Transform Your Home with Paint & Paper*. Mitchell Beazley, 2016.]

16. "Photochromic glasses contain silver halides which give rise to the reversible reactions within the glass. They may be used as windows and sunglasses and as optical memory and self-erasing display devices. 5. 8 THE DAYLIGHT FACTOR The primary purpose of a window is to transmit natural light into a building. The two sources of this natural light are direct sunlight and sky-light. The sky can be regarded as a more effective light source than the sun and, therefore, in natural lighting problems it is customary, in most places, to consider the sky as the only source of light."[(auth.), Rune Persson *Flat Glass Technology*. Springer US, 1969.]

17. "We all like abundance of light for work and play. It stimulates action. ”41 For both Voysey and Berlage, architectural cladding presented an opportunity for the building to transcend its physical limits through the use of light in combination with modern means of construction, thereby sustaining both work and play. In both cases, the architects conceived of modern construction practices and ﬁgurative motifs in relation to particular conditions and aspirations of social life rather than as possessing their own autonomous logic."[Leatherbarrow, David, and Mohsen Mostafavi *Surface Architecture*. 2002.]

18. "Light equals heat. Architectural historian Pevsner (1960, p. 381) explains: … in the Gesu … certain important features are introduced into the composition exclusively to make light effects possible. The nave is lit from windows above the chapels – an even subdued light … the last bay before the dome is shorter, less open and darker than the others. This contraction in space and lightness prepares for the majestic crossing with its mighty cupola … ﬂoods of light streaming down from the windows of the drum."[Short, C. Alan *The Recovery of Natural Environments in Architecture: Air, Comfort and Climate*. Routledge, 2017.]

19. "As for the part with the big bows a light colour was selected. The new buildings, silos, were stained with a light grey to emphasize the similarity. The choice of lighting is invisible. Among the wooden beams of the first floor of rust-coloured cylinders Viabizzuno, light was without being seen. Fluorescent light hidden by veils of the corridor was without being seen as well. 3 The 10 rooms of the house "old" have been designed with a more traditional sign - the bathrooms have mirrors framed in lacquered wood pulp, as in country houses."[(Editor), Orange Yan *Old Hotel New Face*. Design Media Publishing Ltd, 2012.]

20. "Many designers use the term tran-sitionalto describe an interior decorated in a combination of period and contemporary styles. 2. Color and Light What colour combinations are the examples of complementary colour scheme?How can different uses of colour change the size of a room?They together may be used in many ways to produce different effects. Dark-colored walls, for example, may absorb the light and make a room dimly lit. However, the same amount of light will appear brighter in a room with pale-colored walls because pale colors reflect light."[Н.М., Філіппова, and Смуглякова М.К. *Focus on Design. Part Two. Interior Design*. 2017.]

21. "Existing buildings being upgraded for more sustainable operations might consider adding bundles of ﬁberoptic cables rather than inserting light wells (with numerous associated structural complications) to bring natural daylight to interior spaces. In the landscape, minimizing artiﬁcial light spill reduces excessive light pollution and is a goal of sustainably designed projects that support the “night skies” movement (Thompson and Sorvig 2008)."[Yglesias, Caren *The Innovative Use of Materials in Architecture and Landscape Architecture: History, Theory and Performance*. McFarland, 2014.]

22. "The use of the horizontal window in Le Corbusier’s architecture suggests that this contradiction between intended horizon and existing context can be generalized for much of modern architecture: contrary to what drawings such as this aspire to, the vision of an unlimited natural vista has rarely been achieved in the dense urban projects of modern architecture. 12 In America, for example, many social housing projects utilized the picture window on the ground level as if they were facing a landscape, yet this urban space was hardly pastoral and in fact became, in far too many cases, something of a war zone."[Leatherbarrow, David, and Mohsen Mostafavi *Surface Architecture*. 2002.]

23. "All modes of architecture have the power to transmit ideas and emotions irrespective of whether a building is designed to elicit ‘aesthetic appeal’. I would, therefore, suggest architecture’s defining characteristic to be that of communication, of transmitting meaning; indeed, we might say that architecture is ‘building with meaning’. Far from a literal art, the ways in which meaning in architecture are encoded and transmitted are unique and quite different to, say, how one might ‘read’ a painting."[Hopkins, Owen *Reading Architecture  A Visual Lexicon*. Laurence King, 2012.]

24. "Living spaces and bedrooms feel more comfortable with soft light that fills the entire room. Often, in these areas, the main source of ambient light is a pendant lamp in the centre of the ceiling. You can also use table or floor lamps to illuminate dark corners and provide a softer overall effect or fit dimmers on lamps and ceiling lights to allow you to change the mood."[May, Alex *Planning Your Perfect Home Renovation: Save time and money with this essential guide to fuss-free home improvements*. 2005.]

25. "It is necessary, however, to take into account the reflected sky-light as well as the direct sky-light. The amount of daylight arriving at a certain point in a building may, in fact, reach this point as direct sky-light, as externally-reflected sky-light or as internally-reflected sky-light. The sky-light factor is equal to the ratio of the daylight falling on a surface in the building to that on a horizontal surface of the same size outside the building. It is often of importance in the design of a building to be able to pre-estimate the daylight factors in different rooms."[(auth.), Rune Persson *Flat Glass Technology*. Springer US, 1969.]