Created: 2025-12-26 18:00:00
Origin: suggested
Selected: From this perspective, structure is potentially an important architectural element – both as a source of light, where light passes through it or illuminates it, and also as controller of how and where light enters a space. When stone and masonry load-bearing wall construction dominated previous periods of architectural history, openings for light could be considered the absence of structure.[Charleson, Andrew *Structure As Architecture: A Source Book For Architects And Structural Engineers*. Architectural Press, 2005.]

--- Context List ---
01. "From this perspective, structure is potentially an important architectural element – both as a source of light, where light passes through it or illuminates it, and also as controller of how and where light enters a space. When stone and masonry load-bearing wall construction dominated previous periods of architectural history, openings for light could be considered the absence of structure."[Charleson, Andrew *Structure As Architecture: A Source Book For Architects And Structural Engineers*. Architectural Press, 2005.]

02. "It will often play a role in introducing daylight into a space and modifying some of the qualities of light. Success with the big picture is achieved where structure relates to all aspects of the design, down to the smallest structural detail. Within each area of architecture the contribution of structure can take one of many possible forms. Consider the large number of examples illustrating different structural details or ways that structure interacts with daylight."[Charleson, Andrew *Structure As Architecture: A Source Book For Architects And Structural Engineers*. Architectural Press, 2005.]

03. "Because reflections develop as light Daly Genik Architects intended the sky- performance. Each foil can be designed to light installation to achieve an integration moves between the open layers, numerous affect the appearance and performance of design disciplines: structural engineering, iterations were required before the final of the roof, its visual transparency, and the architectural form, and graphic design."[Killory, Christine *Details in Contemporary Architecture*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2007.]

04. "Light proves here to be a means of organising space and emphasising the dynamic forms of the building. This thin shaft of light establishes a subtle link between exterior and interior volumes and underscores the image of the roof shell as a full sail. Without this luminous sliver of light, the mass of the roof covering would appear overpowering or even oppressive."[Pauly, Daniele *Le Corbusier: the Chapel at Ronchamp*. Birkhäuser Architecture, 2008.]

05. "as inspiration for furniture and works of art. Op¬erable windows and two-storey lightwells encourage natural air low, while transparency between adjacent spaces and floors allow daylight to filter down to the main entry level. The original building’s exterior remains intact, but the interior combines the old and the new. Architects worked closely with structural engineers to integrate a new code compliant structure into the original building."[Yu, Jasmine *Museum Display Design*. Design Media Publishing Limited, 2012.]

06. "Existing buildings being upgraded for more sustainable operations might consider adding bundles of ﬁberoptic cables rather than inserting light wells (with numerous associated structural complications) to bring natural daylight to interior spaces. In the landscape, minimizing artiﬁcial light spill reduces excessive light pollution and is a goal of sustainably designed projects that support the “night skies” movement (Thompson and Sorvig 2008)."[Yglesias, Caren *The Innovative Use of Materials in Architecture and Landscape Architecture: History, Theory and Performance*. McFarland, 2014.]

07. "In addition to avoiding the overuse of artiﬁcial light and the heat generated by artiﬁcial light ﬁxtures, rooms with daylight also beneﬁt their occupants, who appreciate experiencing the dynamic qualities of natural light as it changes throughout the day. In general, light ﬁxtures are designed not to be noticed; however, designs that conceal the light source limit the perceptible qualities of ﬁre as light."[Yglesias, Caren *The Innovative Use of Materials in Architecture and Landscape Architecture: History, Theory and Performance*. McFarland, 2014.]

08. "Daylighting Using natural light in an interior space to substitute for artificial light. Daylighting is considered a sustainable building strategy in that it can reduce reliance on artificial light and reduce energy use in the process, and when well designed, it contributes to occupant comfort and performance. Common daylighting strategies include the proper orientation and placement of windows, use of light wells, light shafts or tubes, skylights, clerestory windows, light shelves, reflective surfaces, and shading, and the use of interior glazing to allow light into adjacent spaces."[Ernest., Burden *Illustrated Dictionary of Architecture*. 2017.]

09. "Such a facade “indexes” the interior, though the elaboration of details may well disturb a facade’s basic indexical and, as such, denotative character, introducing not only formal but also connotative complexity and abundance. Of course, restraint may also carry connotative value, but that is an issue for a later chapter. This is clearly an ideal classiﬁcatory schema, since most Renaissance facades are semiotically composite and multiple."[Burroughs, Charles *The Italian Renaissance Palace Façade: Structures of Authority, Surfaces of Sense (Res Monographs in Anthropology and Aesthetics)*. 2002.]

10. "On the upper levels a clear distinction between walling on the exterior and structure on the interior is apparent; what appears on the outside as the structural frame represents the actual load-bearing elements hidden within, but corrected. This use of “structure” as image also makes the “inﬁll” panel ambiguous: it is both integral with a wall and contained within a frame, which also means it is both heavy and lightweight."[Leatherbarrow, David, and Mohsen Mostafavi *Surface Architecture*. 2002.]

11. "Sunlight determines human physical and mental well-being. Light is not just energy, it also triggers emotions and creates the perception of three dimensions and space by casting shade. Daylight Artificial Light From a building biology perspective, the quality of a building is defined by a lighting design that pursues daylight autonomy."[Ece, Nurgul *Building Biology: Criteria and Architectural Design*. Birkhauser, 2017.]

12. "They can be hinged to open outward and angled in order to direct breezes into the building. More modern windows usually consist of four elements which include the main window, insect protection, burglar proof and some form of interior or exterior shading device. Interior shading devices usually consist of curtains or blinds, adding an aesthetic element."[Sayigh, Ali *Sustainable Vernacular Architecture: How the Past Can Enrich the Future*. Springer International Publishing, 2019.]

13. "When a building is challenged by natural hazards such as earthquakes, heavy snowstorms, and severe windstorms, architectural glass components (i. e. windows, spandrel panels, glazed doors, overhead glazing, skylights, etc. )are often at the very frontline of that building’s structural defenses. For this important reason architectural glass components must be designed as structural building components."[Behr, R. A. *Architectural Glass to Resist Seismic and Extreme Climatic Events*. CRC Press, 2009.]

14. "Le Corbusier had considered painting some of these splays and this project is illustrated in a drawing of the south wall interior elevation made with glued coloured paper; however, using light to create coloured reflections seemed preferable to him and this is thus the approach he adopted. Colour can also modify an architectural space or indeed completely transform it."[Pauly, Daniele *Le Corbusier: the Chapel at Ronchamp*. Birkhäuser Architecture, 2008.]

15. "Natural light also makes an important contribution. While there are obvious privacy issues with big windows in crowded neighborhoods, smaller windows set higher on the wall can provide ventilation as well as light. Bathrooms on the south, east, or west walls of the house may not need any artificial lighting during the day. And even bathrooms without exterior walls can get the benefits of natural light with a skylight or a solar tube, a roof-mounted skylight that pipes sunlight into the room via a reflective tube."[Works, Word *New bathroom ideas that work*. Place of publication not identified: Taunton Press, 2013.]

16. "Could this mark the end of toxic cleaning ﬂuids?Light and colour 45 Light and the built environment Physiologically, biologically and psychologically we are profoundly affected by the quality and quantity of light and colour determined by a building’s location, orientation and interior spaces. A room with windows on different elevations varies the interplay of colour, texture and reﬂected direct light: gentle rhythmic daylight can change our thought patterns and mood."[Saunders, Thomas *The Boiled Frog Syndrome: Your Health and the Built Environment*. 2002.]

17. "Most HID lamps are very efficient, but have less desirable attributes. Lighting layout Lighting is an integral part of any architectural scheme and should be coordinated with the interior features. The primary elements of a lighting design consist of point sources, linear sources, planar sources, or volumetric sources. Volumetric sources provide ambient light; linear and planar sources provide general illumination, and point sources provide specific task lighting."[Ernest., Burden *Illustrated Dictionary of Architecture*. 2017.]

18. "140 Lighting Recessed cove lights Wood-siding-clad wall Bathroom Bedroom Translucent glass opening wall Interior windows Interior window Bedroom Skylight above interior windows above • Plywood cabinets are symbolic of 1950s California modern design. above left • A pair of windows in the wall between the bathroom and an adjacent hallway provide natural light."[Works, Word *New bathroom ideas that work*. Place of publication not identified: Taunton Press, 2013.]

19. "The traditional distinction between ornament and décor also fades. Like décor, contemporary digital ornament functions in an immersive way. The recurring analogy drawn by critics between Baroque and digital design might have to do not only with their eventful geometries, but also with the immersive tendencies, which they both display. 4 To convey this new regime of relation between architecture and its viewers, today’s designers readily refer themselves to the Deleuzian notion of affect."[Picon, Antoine *Ornament : the politics of architecture and subjectivity*. Wiley, 2013.]

20. "In addition to this, the underneath space is also sometimes permanently closed and covered with bricks or plywood. Besides affecting the eco-friendly nature of the system, the practice also wastes the utilization of the space under the buildings. Building in context In an architectural context, the external elements will influence the characteristics of the building in terms of its design (orientation, internal space layout, form and shape, etc. )"[Cotgrave, Alison., Michael Farragher, and Mike Riley *Building design, construction and performance in tropical climates*. Routledge, 2018.]

21. "Accessing to the upper parts of buildings is also indispensable to easily undertake maintenance works without any scaffolding: a lot of architectural elements, in the Romanesque period (apse galleries) but especially in the Gothic period (passageways, eavesdrops, staircases, dormer windows, triangle dormers, cat flaps…), are not only aesthetic pieces of architecture but also fulfill a practical function."[Le Brun, Nicolas *Building knowledge, construction history. 2 vols. Proceedings of the 6th International Congress on Construction History (6ICCH 2018), July 9-13, 2018, Brussels, Belgium*. London: CRC Press (U.K.), 2018.]

22. "Tied back to the vertical cores of the building, the tubular steel grid forms part of the structure, so that facade and structure are in effect a seamless entity. The grid acts as stiffening element, bracing the structure against seismic forces. Inside all is equally seamless. A meandering labyrinth of cool white space forms a suitably neutral canvas for the carefully orchestrated display of designer objects."[*The Architectural Review - Sellection  2002-2005* 2011.]

23. "Once es, meeting rooms, and team areas—to the drives absorption chillers for summer cool- inside the atrium, the light is further reflect- overall structure of the building and the site. ing and is exchanged directly into heat in ed throughout the lower floors by a system The environmental design features of the winter. This local energy cycle has no distri- of hanging prismatic mobiles, reflective pan- Genzyme Center encompass all parts of the bution losses, uses one of the most efficient els, and a reflective light wall."[Killory, Christine *Details in Contemporary Architecture*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2007.]

24. "Eco-friendly Entrance: Large front portico gives protection in the harsh winter and shade in the summer for activities 15. Natural Light + Energy Saving Features: Resourceful use of natural light through large windows and skylights without harming the art. 3 layers of filters: exterior louvers, energy-saving insulated glass with argon gas and fabric scrim for light filtering in public area 1 2 4 5 3 6 Lantern Section (Above): 1."[Chang, Wenxin, and Wei Gao *Thematic museums*. Shenyan China: Liaoning Science & Technology Publishing House, Profession Design Press, 2011.]

25. "Depending upon its configuration, structure either inhibits or facilitates the ingress of light. In a building with perimeter structure that does not exclude natural light, structure relates to light in one of four modes – as a source of light where, for example, light passes through a roof truss to enter a space; to maximize light by minimizing the shadow effect of 168 STRUCTURE AS ARCHITECTURE structure; to modify light by reflecting and diffusing it; and occasionally, for light to affect our perception of structure."[Charleson, Andrew *Structure As Architecture: A Source Book For Architects And Structural Engineers*. Architectural Press, 2005.]