Created: 2025-12-12 20:04:35
Origin: suggested
Selected: It is here that it is instructive to position the engagement and use of new digital media within architecture as part of these larger cultural transformations; for there is a parallel rise between the use of digital technology within architecture and popular entertainment. During the period that architecture slowly moved to adopt digital means of drawing and modelling these systems were producing ever more ‘realistic’ representations of architectural space within popular game environments.[Arya, Rina *Francis Bacon: Critical and Theoretical Perspectives*. Peter Lang International Academic Publishers, 2012.]

--- Context List ---
01. "It is here that it is instructive to position the engagement and use of new digital media within architecture as part of these larger cultural transformations; for there is a parallel rise between the use of digital technology within architecture and popular entertainment. During the period that architecture slowly moved to adopt digital means of drawing and modelling these systems were producing ever more ‘realistic’ representations of architectural space within popular game environments."[Arya, Rina *Francis Bacon: Critical and Theoretical Perspectives*. Peter Lang International Academic Publishers, 2012.]

02. "p. cm. — (Writing architecture) Includes bibliographical references and index. ISBN 0-262-57149-8 (pbk. : alk. paper) 1. Architecture—Philosophy. 2. Space (Architecture)—Philosophy. I. Title. II. Series. NA2500 . G76 2001 720´. 1—dc21 2001018300 Acknowledgments vii Foreword by Peter Eisenman xi Introduction xv Part One Embodied Spaces one Embodying Space: An Interview two Lived Spatiality (The Spaces of Corporeal Desire) 31 Futures, Cities, Architecture 49 four Architecture from the Outside 57 ﬁve Cyberspace, Virtuality, and the Real: Some three 3 Part Two Transitional Spaces Architectural Reflections six 75 In-Between: The Natural in Architecture and Culture 91 Part Three Future Spaces seven The Future of Space: Toward an Architecture of Invention 109 eight Embodied Utopias: The Time of Architecture 131 nine Architectures of Excess 151 The Thing 167 ten Notes 185 Bibliography 207 Index 215 I am an outsider to the ﬁeld of architecture."[Grosz, Elizabeth *Architecture from the Outside: Essays on Virtual and Real Space (Writing Architecture)*. 2001.]

03. "Mies’s later work epitomizes the architectonic issues implied in Benjamin’s remarks on the conversion of natural material into building material, and the contrast between historical style and constructive style. At the same time, Mies’s architecture deterritorializes the modernist understanding of architecture; his work has left most contemporary architects with no choice but to return to the ethos of historical eclecticism, or to the tradition of the historical avant-garde, now approached through digital techniques. 41 Second, Benjamin’s assertion that technique determines the formal in art and architecture needs a detailed discussion of the way mediatic techniques transform form in architecture."[Hartoonian, Gevork *Walter Benjamin and architecture*. London, New York: Routledge, 2010.]

04. "Should an architect draw a one-to-one correspondence between design and the new formal principles dictated by computer technologies?Or, should s/he search for the reconstruction of architecture itself, and ask, what is architectural in architecture of the now of the present?More importantly, is it correct to reactivate the residue of ‘dream work’ of the near past, the emancipatory forms of construction emanating in the nineteenth century, as a recipe for current architectural problems?"[Hartoonian, Gevork *Walter Benjamin and architecture*. London, New York: Routledge, 2010.]

05. "You were involved with the award-winning Korean Presbyterian Church of New York, the first building truly conceived and executed with digital media. Please provide more insight on the experience of designing by digital media.  We were able to exploit these relatively new digital tools from email ﬁle transfer to complex manipulations of form and program over the Internet to form a truly unique collaboration. Also, and perhaps more relevant to our current work, the use of multiple software programs (as opposed to one or two), enhances our interests in the software program over time, complex geometries, patterned space and surface, repetitive structure, and many other concepts."[Waldrep, Lee W. *Becoming an Architect: A Guide to Careers in Design*. 2nd ed. Wiley, 2009.]

06. "That one’s perception changes through technological transformation needs no further elaboration here. In his seminal essay, ‘The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction’, Benjamin discusses the subject in reference to film and photography. Following this line of argument, Andrew Benjamin underlines the import of technique to differentiate the particularity of form in painting and photography. 42 But the question is: how do perceptual changes transform form in architecture?"[Hartoonian, Gevork *Walter Benjamin and architecture*. London, New York: Routledge, 2010.]

07. "This chapter, however, has dealt with specific floor plan arrangements, defining a proposed architectural reality. Whenever a floor plan arrangement emerges in any stage of the planning process, some form of three-dimensional sketch, no matter how rough or tentative, can be useful. It is not necessary to debate here whether a solidly functional floor plan is more important than a visually satisfying space; both are crucial to well-designed and sustainable interiors."[Karlen, Mark, and Rob Fleming *Space Planning Basics, 4th Edition*. 4th ed. Wiley, 2016.]

08. "Their distended clusters could be described as confined networks, and alternatively, their overdetermined frameworks suggest a networklike extension. The Rainbow housing project represents an important overture to the city. As clearly exhibited in this monograph, VJAA has always been heavily invested in the urban possibilities of form, in applying such strategies as networks, clusters, and frameworks at the architectural scale, and in exploring how a plurality of forms could be generated out of an architectural problem."[James, Vincent, and Jennifer Yoos *VJAA: Vincent James Associates Architects*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2006.]

09. "This shows how important neuroscientiﬁc research in this ﬁeld might prove in the future for improving the quality of living. A clearer understanding of how people respond behaviorally to particular environmental surroundings, such as architectural design, and what neural mechanisms underlie these effects, could then be used as a foundation for architectural decisions. Architects could rely less on intuition and thereby reduce the variability in the design process. This does not imply that the creative aspects of architectural design will be compromised."[Waldrep, Lee W. *Becoming an Architect: A Guide to Careers in Design*. 2nd ed. Wiley, 2009.]

10. "If one is considering climate and behavior, the design of a building can become very complex. Climate-sensitive vernacular buildings are the product of a more evolutionary design process, where social behavior and environmental conditions are negotiated in generational cycles of construction. The current placeless global market for architects coupled with rapidly changing technologies has compressed design time and disconnected design processes from local practices. The assumption that responsiveness to the temporal field is already embedded in any building program or in the norms of architectural production is a fallacy of contemporary practice."[James, Vincent, and Jennifer Yoos *VJAA: Vincent James Associates Architects*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2006.]

11. "Designers have rarely asked critical questions regarding the appropriateness of form with regard to social, cultural and climatic conditions. Questions regarding the influence of social and cultural factors on built form are complex given the heterogeneous population distribution in the UAE; this inherent complexity imbues these factors with a greater significance and presents a richer challenge to architects."[Edwards, Brian *Courtyard Housing*. Taylor & Francis Group, 2006.]

12. "Fig. 8. 6 Architecture as Organism: crystallization of intention encourages weakening of form Metaphor, Environmental Receptivity, and Architectural Design 199 8. 5. 2 Entertaining New Vocabularies: Edge/Corridor Effects Research is underway to develop alternative building materials, to advance energy performance, and to more efficiently “harvest” on site resources so as to minimize “off-site” environmental problems."[(auth.), Gary Backhaus, Gary Backhaus, and John Murungi (eds.) *Symbolic Landscapes*. Springer Netherlands, 2009.]

13. "PHOTOGRAPHER: TED SHELTON, AIA. THE FUTURE OF THE ARCHITECTURE PROFESSION  Architects are becoming increasingly specialized, which is not necessarily good for the profession as a whole. Lynsey Jane Gemmell, AIA, Project Manager/Associate, Holabird & Root  Green architecture and development will continue to be signiﬁcant in architecture’s future. As this shift takes place, architecture will likely become more context speciﬁc as location plays a large part in determining how a building must be adapted to its environment."[Waldrep, Lee W. *Becoming an Architect: A Guide to Careers in Design*. 2nd ed. Wiley, 2009.]

14. "The integration of sustainability and space planning demands a collaborative and multidisciplinary approach to the space planning process. The revised text in this edition directs the reader to focus on sustainable design concepts and techniques—such as energy and water conservation, improved daylighting, indoor air quality, integrating active mechanical systems, and engagement with the building envelope—as part of the space planning process. This is clearly the necessary direction for those involved in creating the buildings and spaces of our future."[Karlen, Mark, and Rob Fleming *Space Planning Basics, 4th Edition*. 4th ed. Wiley, 2016.]

15. "Hildebrandt goes further to highlight a profound conceptually based rift between interior design and interior architecture: [I]nterior design is grounded in the condition of additive assemblies and separate contracted services. While the design processes of architecture and interior design share the same procedural sequence and a core discipline vocabulary, interior design, both as a discipline and in its product, is (or can be) free of the weight of the architecture. Additive assemblies within the “interior” may establish an independent language. . . intentionally, conceptually, and contractually removed from the building shell. 26 Whether in an educational or professional context, interior design’s association with architecture necessitates an imperative for students and practitioners to become familiar with a wide scope of building technologies, including materials and systems, structures, physics, health and safety issues, mathematics, and sustainable practices."[Kleinman, Kent, Joanna Merwood-Salisbury, and Lois Weinthal *After Taste: Expanded Practice in Interior Design*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2011.]