Created: 2025-12-28 23:30:38
Origin: suggested
Selected: In particular, it allows skin to be understood as a form of clothing, and clothing as a form of skin. In other words, skin can be understood as a canvas to be dressed up (as in ornamentation practices such 78 The Metaphor of Nudity as tattooing), and clothing can be understood as a second skin. Skin is thus a crucial border site in the shifting relation between nudity and clothing – a bodily site with great cultural, psychological and phenomenological import. Its cultural functions include acting as a marker of racial identity, regulating the opposition between the “inside” and “outside” of the body and, metaphorically, acting like a kind of shell or clothing, holding the body in place.[Barcan, Ruth *Nudity: A Cultural Anatomy*. Berg Publishers, 2004.]

--- Context List ---
01. "In particular, it allows skin to be understood as a form of clothing, and clothing as a form of skin. In other words, skin can be understood as a canvas to be dressed up (as in ornamentation practices such 78 The Metaphor of Nudity as tattooing), and clothing can be understood as a second skin. Skin is thus a crucial border site in the shifting relation between nudity and clothing – a bodily site with great cultural, psychological and phenomenological import. Its cultural functions include acting as a marker of racial identity, regulating the opposition between the “inside” and “outside” of the body and, metaphorically, acting like a kind of shell or clothing, holding the body in place."[Barcan, Ruth *Nudity: A Cultural Anatomy*. Berg Publishers, 2004.]

02. "Skin has also become a recurring trope in architectural theory; architects are designing architectural exteriors and interiors that control climate and respond to the environment as a means of circulating air and light. Like skin, these new walls are selfregulating, “intelligent” boundaries. Certainly the metaphor of skin as the house we live in is omnipresent in both fiction and everyday idiom. In fact, in much of the writing explored in this volume, the metaphor of the body as habitat appears specifically in terms of the skin as house: after all, without the skin, the body is simply one more empty space, without defined boundaries."[Flanagan, Mary, and Austin Booth *Re:skin*. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press, 2006.]

03. "What we see in much of the architecture and art referred to in this volume is that the distinction between artwork, body, or building and surface, skin, or façade begins to be persistently broken down and reconfigured. What emerges in the works collected in re:skin is a complex understanding of the ways in which difference, especially gender difference and bodily difference, is marked and constituted. Many of the writers here ask, What constitutes a body?and invoke ideas of switchable body parts or notions of the body as a discontinuous series of networks: open, rather than closed, systems."[Flanagan, Mary, and Austin Booth *Re:skin*. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press, 2006.]

04. "When tattoo—sacred in its home contexts—is bought, borrowed, or stolen, the designs’ meaning comes unmoored. That process may heighten artistic freedom for the writers, artists, and designers who use the patterns; it may be highly meaningful to the individuals who bear the design and to the societies through which they move. But it is also true that in this process, the patterns may be treated as pure form."[Ellis, Juniper *Tattooing the World: Pacific Designs in Print and Skin*. Columbia University Press, 2008.]

05. "Choosing to be a physical deviant symbolically demonstrates one's disregard for the prevailing norms. Public display of symbolic physical deviance. then. effectively communicates a wealth of information that shapes the social situation in which interaction takes place (Goffman. 1963b; Lofland. 1973: 79-80). These issues of voluntary body alteration. deviation from appearance norms. and the social impact of purposive public stigmatization provide the central theme orienting this introductory material and the subsequent chapters on the social and occupational world of tattooing."[Sanders, Clinton, and D Angus Vail *Customizing the Body: The Art and Culture of Tattooing*. Revised. Temple University Press, 2008.]

06. "Therefore, the decision of an individual to augment the natural body through temporary or permanent decoration reveals precise information regarding that person’s social role, whether actual or conceptualized. Body decoration also reflects information on the society the individual inhabits. Specific colors, patterns, ornamental items, and the manner and timing with which these materials are applied to the body are all part of a culturally defined communication code (Brain 1979; Ebin 1979). In this regard, body decoration reflects overall social, religious, and political systems, as well as an individual’s place within these systems."[Deter-Wolf, Aaron *Drawing with great needles : ancient tattoo traditions of North America*. Austin, North America.: University of Texas Press, 2013.]

07. "At the same time, how racialized skin responds to relentless corporealization and objectiﬁcation may take unexpected forms. The desire to remake oneself as object can be shared by those we think would be most allergic to such transformation. Individuation and personhood for the objectiﬁed subject may not always take the forms of exercising power and agency in the traditional sense, but may instead be achieved through self-evacuation as well as self-syntheticization. Trying to house and display Baker’s corporeal body led Loos to an intricate, conceptual engagement with the very notion of abstraction, a confrontation that pushes back on the pressure points in his own theoretical work, as well as highlights the intricacies and contradictions inhering in ideas of racial and sexual identities."[Cheng, Anne Anlin *Second Skin: Josephine Baker & the Modern Surface*. Oxford University Press, 2011.]

08. "Atkinson grounds his understanding of tattooing largely on ideas developed by Norbert Elias (1991, 1994) that emphasize how social experience shapes individual and collective personality structures and how people’s use 185 Epilogue 2008 and perceptions of the body arise out of social interaction. Atkinson develops a “figurational” sociology that offers a picture of tattooing as shaped both by social structure and the creative personal decisions of those who choose to acquire tattoos. Imbedded within a matrix of complex relationships and interdependencies, people, Atkinson maintains, use tattooing as a life-long body project that allows them to define, negotiate, and maintain definitions of self, identity, and social position."[Sanders, Clinton, and D Angus Vail *Customizing the Body: The Art and Culture of Tattooing*. Revised. Temple University Press, 2008.]

09. "In contemporary Fiji the practice of tattooing has changed, but the focus on the body’s social meanings continues. Observing that in Nahigatoka Fijians are preoccupied with commenting on other people ’s bodily shapes, Becker suggests, “Body morphology is a primary lexicon of social processes, not a means of self-representation; it is a matter of social, not personal, concern. ”51 Becker’s assessment founds her study of the way Fijian culture shapes the experiences and meanings of embodiment; it also returns us to the insight that tattooing, as a way of making the body legible in culture, has meanings that are as much social as personal."[Ellis, Juniper *Tattooing the World: Pacific Designs in Print and Skin*. Columbia University Press, 2008.]

10. "For example, Platonic and Christian metaphysics imagined the body as the clothing of the soul (Perniola 1989: 239). Imagining the self as comprised of sets of mutually enclosing “layers” necessarily draws attention to borders and hence to skin."[Barcan, Ruth *Nudity: A Cultural Anatomy*. Berg Publishers, 2004.]

11. "That fish-silver dawn spent at the knackers’ yard brought home to me in a visceral and chilling way this notion of the skin as a pelt; something that could exist separately from body, but only with the death of the animal that it encased. Yet, at the end of this process of writing, this dissection, if you like, of the skin and of its meanings and its functions, it is not the separateness of the skin that has been reiterated for me again and again, but its interconnectedness with the body and the mind: the various ways 252 The Skin We’re In that it reflects our inner emotional state, mediates our relationship with others, or broadcasts the state of our health."[Cuskelly, Maryrose *Original Skin: Exploring the Marvels of the Human Hide*. Counterpoint, 2011.]

12. "The racial fetish, metonymized as animal or Papuan skin in Loos’s work, provides the pivot on which Modernist aesthetic values turn: essence versus veneer, plainness versus excess, utility versus waste, taste versus vulgarity. Yet, as we have started to see, the pivot—that haunting skin—is itself already contaminated. Modern architecture may in fact be quite naked, though not in the senses of purity or transparency as is traditionally claimed, but rather in the very material sense of embodying a profound nostalgia for, if not a downright imitation of, the lost, originary, naked skin."[Cheng, Anne Anlin *Second Skin: Josephine Baker & the Modern Surface*. Oxford University Press, 2011.]

13. "Therefore, it seems justified to analyze the decoration of these figurines as a proxy for human body treatment. The transferability of ornamental motifs and compositions between material culture and tattoo designs is known from ethnographic documents and is considered a potential correlate for temporary and permanent prehistoric body art (Streit 1935:681). Nevertheless, this transferability of patterns and designs also makes it difficult to determine whether ornamentation depicted on figurines represents textile patterns or body art forms, since costume design may also be decorated with linear ornamentation (e. g. , Lüning 2005)."[Krutak, Lars, and Aaron Deter-Wolf *Ancient Ink: The Archaeology of Tattooing*. Hardcover. University of Washington Press, 2017.]

14. "There are many nuances to the way clothing is worn on the body, particularly to its colours and how these emphasize the topography of the body and relate to emotional expression. This is especially important on the head, either as hats or headbands that cover the forehead . Clothes resurface the body with different colours and patterns analogous to the way in which the land changes. I discussed in Section One the way in which the surface of the land/body changes temporally through sequences of bright colours as a consequence of the agency of rain and fire, wind and sun."[Young, Diane Jane Barbara *The Colours of Things: Memory, Materiality and an Anthropology of the Senses in North Western South Australia*. University College London, 2001.]

15. "xii ACKNOWLEDGMENTS ANCIENT INK Introduction Aaron Deter-Wolf and Lars Krutak T he desire to alter, decorate, and adorn the human body is a cultural universal. While specific forms of body decoration and the underlying motivations vary according to region, culture, and era, human societies from the past and present have engaged in practices designed to enhance their natural appearance. Tattooing—the process of inserting pigment into the skin to create permanent designs and patterns—as a form of body decoration has been practiced by cultures around the globe and throughout human history."[Krutak, Lars, and Aaron Deter-Wolf *Ancient Ink: The Archaeology of Tattooing*. Hardcover. University of Washington Press, 2017.]

16. "Yet nothing ‘re-places’ and organizes the body to such on-going eﬀect as dress. Worn next to the body, its ‘social skin’ as it has been called, dress is the body’s most immediate instruction on how it should stand and sit, restrain itself or hang loose, enacting the oppositions on which cultural values rest. Cultural dispositions are integrated with physical dispositions, and access to this set of dispositions is through the body as much as through the mind—as he describes in the above quote."[Andrewes, Janet *Bodywork: Dress As Cultural Tool (African Social Studies Series)*. 2004.]

17. "It seems to suggest yet another body over and above the one more hidden than shown below, one whose main effect, being dependent upon the lower body’s every movement, lies in revealing a lozenge-shaped oval of that body in its naked state. Here, again, skin is seen at the price of ﬁgure. The nakedness revealing itself follows chance movements and cannot be pre-arranged. By contrast, one can think of Versace, where every baring of skin is carefully framed and sexiness is set into action in a manner as dramatical as it is predictable."[Vinken, Barbara *Fashion Zeitgeist: Trends and Cycles in the Fashion System*. 2005.]

18. "He incorporated these body markings into a collection entitled Twelve Black Girls (1976), which reinforced the notion that his work extended beyond an exclusively Oriental style. Again in 1989/90, he created a series of tattoo-like body stocking garments that were worn close to the body by using a stretch fabric. According to Holborn, ‘This sense of design provided a window on world culture with a modern look embracing ethnic beauty’ (1995: 42). This globalisation of culture is inherent to postmodernist design where appropriation and synthesis of both Western and non-Western elements occur."[English, Bonnie *Japanese Fashion Designers: The Work and Influence of Issey Miyake, Yohji Yamamoto and Rei Kawakubo*. Bloomsbury Academic, 2011.]

19. "These messages may refer to a wide variety of cultural phenomena and they may contain a wide variety of distinctions, but the code itself oﬀers the individual no way of manipulating these messages. Neich analysed body painting among the people of Mount Hagen and showed how, by selecting various elements of body decoration and combining them into syntagmatic sequences according to a particular, approved code, certain messages could be produced. By choosing a decorative unit from each paradigmatic class the Hagener manifests himself as donor, donor’s helper, warrior, and so on; he is totally unable however to manipulate the code and produce a message of his own."[Andrewes, Janet *Bodywork: Dress As Cultural Tool (African Social Studies Series)*. 2004.]

20. "A tan line may define us as an outdoor worker, a stretch mark as a mother. In Aboriginal cultures, a boy’s transition to manhood might be marked physically on the body through scarification, while in India the shade of your skin might indicate your caste. Tightness around the temples may 15 ORIGINAL SKIN hint at a facelift, while a certain type of lesion on the skin known as Kaposi’s sarcoma could mark you as having AIDS."[Cuskelly, Maryrose *Original Skin: Exploring the Marvels of the Human Hide*. Counterpoint, 2011.]

21. "The sharp needles of the comb inserted the dye under the skin and left permanent designs. In New Zealand the Maori made distinctive swirl designs by using sharp chisels to carve deep grooves into the skin. Applied by a skilled master in small sections at significant moments throughout the course of a person’s life, it took many decades to cover a person’s entire body. Tattoos indicated sex, age, wealth, and social status. They had religious significance among some groups, but in other groups tattoos were purely ornamental, though extremely important."[Pendergast, Sara, Tom Pendergast, and Sarah Hermsen *Fashion, costume, and culture: clothing, headwear, body decorations, and footwear through the ages*. Detroit: UXL, 2003.]

22. "We've been shopping for second hand clothes says D. As with the series of colours in clothes worn for mourning, there is a sense in which an individual is expressing and reflecting their own emotions towards an external social event - in this case the state of the land /body - through their social skin, that is, their clothing. But they are also effecting that event in doing so, in the same way that body painting is used to achieve certain ends, the growth of a girl's breasts for example."[Young, Diane Jane Barbara *The Colours of Things: Memory, Materiality and an Anthropology of the Senses in North Western South Australia*. University College London, 2001.]

23. "Body decoration no doubt played an important role in symbolizing this division. Exploring the interplay between the decoration of bodies and material culture among historically known Southeastern groups may shed new light on gendered activities. The ethnographic examples gathered here suggest that female body decoration is more often tied to rites of passage and marriage ceremony, while male tattoos are more often used as markers of status achieved in warfare."[Deter-Wolf, Aaron *Drawing with great needles : ancient tattoo traditions of North America*. Austin, North America.: University of Texas Press, 2013.]

24. "Basingstoke: Palgrave, 2002. Thompson, Mark. Leatherfolk: Radical Sex, People, Politics, and Practice. Los Angeles, CA: Daedalus Publishing, 1992. Tine Cohen-Kettenis, Peggy. Transgenderism and Intersexuality in Childhood and Adolescence: Making Choices. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 2003. Turner, B. “The Possibility of Primitiveness: Towards a Sociology of Body Marks in Cool Societies. ” Body & Society 5(2–3) (1999): 39–50. Turner, Terence S. “The Social Skin. ” In Jeremy Cherfas and Roger Lewin, eds. , Not Work Alone: A Cross-Cultural View of Activities Superfluous to Survival."[DeMello, Margo *Encyclopedia of Body Adornment*. Greenwood, 2007.]

25. "183 Matthew Battles, Library: An Unquiet History (New York, 2003), p. 14. 184 Susan Sontag, ‘Notes on “Camp”’, in Against Interpretation (New York, 1966), p. 286. 185 See George Dodds and Robert Tavernor, eds, Body and Building: Essays on the Changing Relation of Body and Architecture (Cambridge, MA, 2002), p. 79. 186 See I. C. McManus, ‘Symmetry and Asymmetry in Aesthetics and the Arts’, European Review, XIII/2 (2005), p. 174. 187 Vesalius quoted in Marri Lynn, ‘Vesalius and the Body Metaphor’, www. publicdomainreview. org, 18 April 2013."[Henderson, Gretchen E. *Ugliness: A Cultural History*. Reaktion Books, 2015.]