Created: 2025-12-25 19:54:48
Origin: searched
Selected: I thanked her most heartily, and asked her her name, and who she was. She was not too proud or too haughty to reply. “Those who know me call me Idleness. ” Then without another word, I entered the garden by the door that Idleness had opened for me, and once inside, I grew happy, gay, and joyful; indeed I assure you that I truly believed myself to be in the earthly paradise, for the place was so delighful that it seemed quite ethereal. ’ (trans.[Unwin, Simon *Doorway*. Routledge, 2008.]

--- Context List ---
01. "I thanked her most heartily, and asked her her name, and who she was. She was not too proud or too haughty to reply. “Those who know me call me Idleness. ” Then without another word, I entered the garden by the door that Idleness had opened for me, and once inside, I grew happy, gay, and joyful; indeed I assure you that I truly believed myself to be in the earthly paradise, for the place was so delighful that it seemed quite ethereal. ’ (trans."[Unwin, Simon *Doorway*. Routledge, 2008.]

02. "Page 323 stools by India Mahdavi, pendant lights from Edition Limitée. Author’s Acknowledgements Firstly, I would like to start by acknowledging my clients, as well as my friends, who have continued to have faith in my creations throughout my 40-year career, and who have allowed me to come back into their homes to photograph them time and time again."[Hoppen, Kelly *House of Hoppen: A Retrospective*. Jacqui Small, 2016.]

03. "Before leaving Blue Velvet, we should return to Jacobs, a ﬁgure coopted by many New Urbanists, despite her doubts about the movement. In The Death and Life of Great American Cities, she writes: Neighborhood is a word that has come to sound like a Valentine."[Martin, Richard *The Architecture of David Lynch*. Bloomsbury Academic, 2014.]

04. "The stimulation and challenge of living in a city stems from the fact that people meet others who are not like themselves. The bigger the city, the more scope there is for brushing past someone from another world: someone with an unexpected sense of what to wear, or maybe a celebrity who quietly passes by and is suddenly familiar after the event – or someone with an exceptional sense of how to comport themselves, such as a woman in Paris making stately progress with a large bottle of water confidently balanced on her head."[Ballantyne, Andrew *Key buildings from prehistory to the present : plans, sections and elevations*. Har/Cdr. London: Laurence King Publishing, 2012.]

05. "In 1974 my mother handed the Bible over to me, making me its sixth documented owner. My first-born, a daughter, will be its seventh. The pamphlet bears the maiden name, Phebe Howard, of the second wife of the Bible's first owner, and records the date, July 25, 1779, upon which it was "given to her," presumably by one whose name also appears (and whom I had wrongly assumed was the author), Polly Lewis."[Clark, Charles E. *The Meetinghouse Tragedy: An Episode in the Life of a New England Town*. New Hampshire, 1998.]

06. "For Freud, loving thy neighbor without qualiﬁcation or merit was absurd. In fact, “nothing else runs so much counter to basic human nature. ” Our innate hostility means a stranger is not only “altogether unlovable,” but actually holds “a greater claim to my enmity, even to my hatred. ”69 Accepting an unbridgeable divide between humans is, for Freud, a sign of maturity and self-awareness, while Burroughs twists this logic into a truly radical form of social relations."[Martin, Richard *The Architecture of David Lynch*. Bloomsbury Academic, 2014.]

07. "Your love and support and quiet tiptoeing past my office because “Mom is writing—be quiet!” are woven in and out of every paragraph. Thank you for helping me complete the book and enjoy every minute of it."[Kotite, Erika *She sheds : a room of your own*. Cool Springs Press, 2017.]

08. "Rocking. Although perhaps not ideal for getting your hair done. ‘Wegner’s gift lies in the perfect simplicity of his designs. They’re not flashy or too clever, but smooth, comfortable and absolutely fit for their purpose. ’ 32 RECLAIM OCTOBER 2017 RECLAIM19_22-35 [NEWS]LMIFLMIFLMJCLMIFLM. indd 32 31/08/2017 20:03 BRUTON DECORATIVE ANTIQUES FAIR 13-15 OCTOBER 2017 Trade preview 13 October 11am - 2pm The Haynes International, Motor Museum BA22 7LH T: 01278 784912 brutondecorativeantiquesfair. co. uk ADVERTS FILES#19. indd 6 31/08/2017 20:55 NEWS READERS’ HOMES Small Pleasures We speak to Emma Hardy who’s transformed a damp two-up two-down, fisherman’s cottage in the Kent seaside town of Whitstable into a light and airy home filled with vintage joy WORDS ALICE ROBERTON The Property: Seven years ago, Emma Hardy was in search of a small house to buy for herself and her son George when she came across a semi-detached, traditional, fisherman’s cottage in the heart of Whitstable."[*Reclaim Magzine* 2017.]

09. "I now realise that I owe much of my love of vintage to her. Ellie Tennant I wish I had salvaged my grandparents’ beautiful green 1950s sofas and armchairs."[*Reclaim Magzine* 2017.]

10. "Functionality was born of necessity, and beauty out of longing for respite from an imperfect world. Our predecessors understood proportion and scale, when to embellish and what to leave plain; how to mix and match heights and details and colors and textures to achieve effects of grandeur and intimacy; how to break up an otherwise featureless surface with just enough ornament to relieve boredom or, with a bit more, to add excitement."[Skrdla, Harry *Ghostly Ruins: America's Forgotten Architecture*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2006.]

11. "I was born on a farm and I’ve always been someone who picks up materials lying around and makes things – from mud pies onwards really. When I was about 14 I was introduced to the work of the artist Sophie Ryder who makes wire sculptures, so I then went home and started making things out of old bits of chicken wire and junk metal."[*Reclaim Magzine* 2017.]

12. "A note and a sketch mention this source: “Light!in 1911 (?)I had noticed something like that dug out in a Roman grotto in Tivoli”. If Ronchamp made him almost immediately think of Tivoli – and the very first sketchbook drawings indicate this – it is not merely because he had visited this place, but more importantly because he had drawn there what he wanted to retain from it: “one draws so as to fix deep down in one’s own experience what is seen”."[Pauly, Daniele *Le Corbusier: the Chapel at Ronchamp*. Birkhäuser Architecture, 2008.]

13. "I loved that I always went back and nothing had changed. It was all part of an amazing time spent with cousins, aunts and uncles. And, I suppose, because I had tragedy later in life, with my parents divorcing and then my father dying when I was still so young, this was a crucial – and genuinely happy – time for me."[Hoppen, Kelly *House of Hoppen: A Retrospective*. Jacqui Small, 2016.]

14. "KH The thing is, I don’t take notice of trends. It’s weird. Maybe it’s because I’m so busy and always in my own head, but my influences come from things like art, fashion, vintage, music, people and conversation."[Hoppen, Kelly *House of Hoppen: A Retrospective*. Jacqui Small, 2016.]

15. "It also meant: expensive. And so, when my fiancé, Andrew, and I made the transition from a one-bedroom garden apartment in Cobble Hill to a car, the move was driven by the promise of grandiosity beyond our Brooklyn dwelling – one that would swell to the whole of the United States."[Stowe, Doug *Building small cabinets*. Newtown, CT: Taunton Press, 2011.]