Created: 2025-12-12 20:14:30
Origin: suggested
Selected: Architecture has tended to conceive of itself as an art, a science, or a mechanics for the manipulation of space, indeed probably the largest, most systematic and most powerful mode for spatial organization and modiﬁcation. Space itself, the very stuff of architectural reﬂection and production, requires and entails a mode of time, timeliness, or duration. Indeed, space must always involve at least two times, or perhaps two kinds of time. The ﬁrst is the time of the emergence of space as such, a time before time and space, a temporalization/spatialization that precedes and renders the organization or emergence of space as such and time as such and thus emerges before any scientiﬁc understanding of a space-time continuum. 1 This is the space-time of difference, of différance ( Jacques Derrida discusses différance as precisely the temporization of space and the spatialization of time), or differentiation (in Deleuzian terms, differing from itself ), which is a precondition of and prior to the space and time of life, of understanding, of science.[Grosz, Elizabeth *Architecture from the Outside: Essays on Virtual and Real Space (Writing Architecture)*. 2001.]

--- Context List ---
01. "It is not used solely to build an argument or rationalize form but to disturb our process of design and expose unique social, environmental, and cultural issues embedded in the initial constraints of each project. As a design evolves, we renegotiate its conceptual framework through a process that is inherently fluid, adaptive, and self-critical. We use research to undermine many assumptions about architecture as a discipline, such as the fixity of building type, the hierarchy of facade and entry, the rigid nature of program, and the universal and global character that modern architecture has put into place."[James, Vincent, and Jennifer Yoos *VJAA: Vincent James Associates Architects*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2006.]

02. "Architecture has tended to conceive of itself as an art, a science, or a mechanics for the manipulation of space, indeed probably the largest, most systematic and most powerful mode for spatial organization and modiﬁcation. Space itself, the very stuff of architectural reﬂection and production, requires and entails a mode of time, timeliness, or duration. Indeed, space must always involve at least two times, or perhaps two kinds of time. The ﬁrst is the time of the emergence of space as such, a time before time and space, a temporalization/spatialization that precedes and renders the organization or emergence of space as such and time as such and thus emerges before any scientiﬁc understanding of a space-time continuum. 1 This is the space-time of difference, of différance ( Jacques Derrida discusses différance as precisely the temporization of space and the spatialization of time), or differentiation (in Deleuzian terms, differing from itself ), which is a precondition of and prior to the space and time of life, of understanding, of science."[Grosz, Elizabeth *Architecture from the Outside: Essays on Virtual and Real Space (Writing Architecture)*. 2001.]

03. "Architecture becomes a dynamic process rather than a fixed object, responsive to the environment, and an event to be activated. An architectural understanding that resonates with Ricoeur’s very notion of metaphor; “to present all things ‘as in act’—such could well be the ontological function of its new metaphorical discourse, in which every dormant potentiality of existence appears as blossoming forth, every latent capacity for action as actualized. ”34 198 B. Muller As I have attempted to argue: (1) by employing metaphors in the design process, consciously or not, architects frame an awareness of certain conditions that influence the direction of future explorations, and (2) “green” metaphors invite greater environmental attunement and therefore are helping reshape practice for the better."[(auth.), Gary Backhaus, Gary Backhaus, and John Murungi (eds.) *Symbolic Landscapes*. Springer Netherlands, 2009.]

04. "Missing is an understanding of the fluidity of building processes and the feedback loop that results from seeing architecture as a cyclical and evolving process of making, occupying, and remaking—the ongoing generation of architectural form that is continually informed by social, environmental, and technological factors. In a microcosm, the construction of buildings corresponds directly to the self-governing or culturally contingent behaviors that DeLanda examines on a historical and geographic scale."[James, Vincent, and Jennifer Yoos *VJAA: Vincent James Associates Architects*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2006.]

05. "Perhaps the most striking transformation effected by these technologies is the change in our perceptions of materiality, space, and information, which is bound directly or indirectly to affect how we understand architecture, habitation, and the built environment. These changes are most apparent in the development of complex systems of simulation, storage, and circulation of information and representation now labeled cyberspace and virtual reality. Cyberspace has been considered a “parallel” universe to our own, generated and sustained by global communications networks and computers linking disparate physical spaces and individuals through a shared virtual space, the space of linked, networked computers and their users. 1 The contours of this virtual space and its various contents can be generated, manipulated, and to some extent controlled in ways unheard of in the space(s) that we normally take for granted, which I will describe as lived, everyday space."[Grosz, Elizabeth *Architecture from the Outside: Essays on Virtual and Real Space (Writing Architecture)*. 2001.]

06. "p. cm. — (Writing architecture) Includes bibliographical references and index. ISBN 0-262-57149-8 (pbk. : alk. paper) 1. Architecture—Philosophy. 2. Space (Architecture)—Philosophy. I. Title. II. Series. NA2500 . G76 2001 720´. 1—dc21 2001018300 Acknowledgments vii Foreword by Peter Eisenman xi Introduction xv Part One Embodied Spaces one Embodying Space: An Interview two Lived Spatiality (The Spaces of Corporeal Desire) 31 Futures, Cities, Architecture 49 four Architecture from the Outside 57 ﬁve Cyberspace, Virtuality, and the Real: Some three 3 Part Two Transitional Spaces Architectural Reflections six 75 In-Between: The Natural in Architecture and Culture 91 Part Three Future Spaces seven The Future of Space: Toward an Architecture of Invention 109 eight Embodied Utopias: The Time of Architecture 131 nine Architectures of Excess 151 The Thing 167 ten Notes 185 Bibliography 207 Index 215 I am an outsider to the ﬁeld of architecture."[Grosz, Elizabeth *Architecture from the Outside: Essays on Virtual and Real Space (Writing Architecture)*. 2001.]

07. "This counterposition concerns the very substance of the architectural endeavor as what Loos calls a "thinking in space. "What are the specifics of this space?Is this making-space an endeavor that establishes places?And are these places a "collection'', a mutual belonging of things and dwelling?Or is this making-space an Ent-ortung, an annihiliation of the places, an arranging of the land as an empty and uniform space at the disposal of the new project?This radical choice remains unquestioned as long as one limits oneself to emphasizing the specifics of architecture as being thinking in space."[Cacciari, Massimo, Stephen Sartarelli (transl.), and Patrizia Lombardo (introduction) *Architecture and Nihilism: On the Philosophy of Modern Architecture*. Yale University Press, 1995.]

08. "Here Eisenman argues that postfifteenthcentury architecture, including modernism, operated under the influence of three fictions: representation (a billboard for a message), reason (a rational source for design), and history (a mirror for the Zeitgeist). Ensnared in a wider crisis of value, architecture ended up bereft of legitimacy. In response to this condition, Eisenman proposes a "notclassical" architecture, which only attempts to be a representation of itself, its own values and internal experience."[Shapiro, Gary *After the Future: Postmodern Times and Places*. Albany: State University of New York Press, 1990.]

09. "Srygley interprets the main street-like development as presenting an allegory that critiques both the suburban landscape that it extols and the urban landscape that it shuns. It presents this allegory through the architectural oxymoron of a private public space. Nevertheless, due to an urban, historical amnesia, whereby people no longer understand what quality urban space is about, this allegorical critique is not experienced, rather, the ersatz main street makes for a “successful” con. It is precisely the absence of a veritable embodied urban experience that allows for a cheap imitation “to work. ” In chapter eight, “Metaphor, Environmental Receptivity, and Architectural Design,” Brook Muller discusses the important role of metaphor in architectural design."[(auth.), Gary Backhaus, Gary Backhaus, and John Murungi (eds.) *Symbolic Landscapes*. Springer Netherlands, 2009.]

10. "Topics such as context, climate, culture, human behavior, and technology introduce and connect relevant projects. Ideas and buildings are equally valid outcomes; inevitably, the distinctiveness of each project and each client is able to engage this content at varying degrees. 18 While building construction may be linear, design thinking is nonlinear and associative. We cannot simply declare what a building is or what it is supposed to be. Design results from a process of absorbing, conceiving, critiquing, reframing, unraveling, and developing this diverse content."[James, Vincent, and Jennifer Yoos *VJAA: Vincent James Associates Architects*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2006.]

11. "Factors that help to induce a sense of ‘place’, therefore, are given particular consideration. One of the most effective of these factors is light, to the extent that light and space are inseparable and that when light is eliminated from a space the emotional content of space disappears. The essence of architectural space lies in the interaction of the elements that define it. We can observe the relevance of the indivisible interplay of space and light in the case of the courtyard house."[Edwards, Brian *Courtyard Housing*. Taylor & Francis Group, 2006.]

12. "Hildebrandt goes further to highlight a profound conceptually based rift between interior design and interior architecture: [I]nterior design is grounded in the condition of additive assemblies and separate contracted services. While the design processes of architecture and interior design share the same procedural sequence and a core discipline vocabulary, interior design, both as a discipline and in its product, is (or can be) free of the weight of the architecture. Additive assemblies within the “interior” may establish an independent language. . . intentionally, conceptually, and contractually removed from the building shell. 26 Whether in an educational or professional context, interior design’s association with architecture necessitates an imperative for students and practitioners to become familiar with a wide scope of building technologies, including materials and systems, structures, physics, health and safety issues, mathematics, and sustainable practices."[Kleinman, Kent, Joanna Merwood-Salisbury, and Lois Weinthal *After Taste: Expanded Practice in Interior Design*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2011.]

13. "In other words, one can create a digital object either by surface representation or by representing the interior volume of the object. Because the surface of a digitally generated skin already PART I: M O V E M E N T S PAC E implies a sense of volume, polygon mesh generation is the preferred option across a number of systems used in computer-aided design (CAD). But how can we represent movement within this stereotypical space?And how can movement and space become coextensive?Or as Laban puts it, how can “space [be] … a hidden feature of movement and movement … a visible aspect of space” (1966, 4)?"[Sutil, Nicolás Salazar *Motion and Representation: The Language of Human Movement*. The MIT Press, 2015.]

14. "The mesh network in Corpora in Si(gh)te is realized in a real-time environment and has behavior like an organic structure or a nervous system. This fosters an understanding of virtual architecture growing like an organism and not like a concrete entity. Herein, a change of perspective goes hand in hand with interaction with surrounding environment. The project Corpora in Si(gh)te was installed onsite at Yamaguchi Center for Arts and Media, at the Venice Architecture Biennale, the Ars Electronica Center, and the Hungarian Cultural Institute in Berlin, each time creating from scratch a completely different intelligent structure, using sensors and wireless network functions that were placed in the respective real environment."[Ulrik, Ekman, Bolter Jay David, and Díaz Lily (Eds). *Ubiquitous Computing, Complexity and Culture*. 2017.]

15. "Space planning is not a simple process involving a single category of information. Rather, it is a complex dovetailing of several processes involving many categories of information related to the organization and construction of buildings. Such processes range from program analysis and use of building code principles to sustainable design principles and the development of desired spatial qualities."[Karlen, Mark, and Rob Fleming *Space Planning Basics, 4th Edition*. 4th ed. Wiley, 2016.]