Created: 2025-11-02 00:31:58
Origin: suggested
Selected: However, in order to further develop this area in a systematic manner we need an agenda, and a mission statement for our work. A new AgendA Any agenda needs a method and an approach for reaching the goals and mission statements formulated in the agenda. If the mission statement here is to further develop this area of interactive architecture, then the method proposed in this book goes via the development of an architectural register for interaction. As formulated in this book we have, on the one hand, the traditional field of architecture which provides us with a rich register of concepts to describe and analyze our built environment.[Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies, Mikael Wiberg, 2010]

--- Context List ---
01. "However, in order to further develop this area in a systematic manner we need an agenda, and a mission statement for our work. A new AgendA Any agenda needs a method and an approach for reaching the goals and mission statements formulated in the agenda. If the mission statement here is to further develop this area of interactive architecture, then the method proposed in this book goes via the development of an architectural register for interaction. As formulated in this book we have, on the one hand, the traditional field of architecture which provides us with a rich register of concepts to describe and analyze our built environment."[Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies, Mikael Wiberg, 2010]

02. "If reviewing the work done in-between these two strands of research, i. e. work specifically conducted to address “interactive architecture” as such we find some good examples including Bullivant´s work on responsive environments (Bullivant, 2006), interactive architecture (Bullivant, 2005), and interactive design environments (Bullivant, 2007). Further on, Spiller´s work on reflexive architecture (Spiller, 2002) and Kolarevic & Malkawi´s work on performative architecture (2005) adds to our understanding of this phenomenon."[Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies, Mikael Wiberg, 2010]

03. "Further on, through the case studies presented in chapter 7 in this book, some contributions in terms of methodological approaches to interactive architecture design are provided. Still, this is only small contributions and should be read as indicators of possibilities for the development of full-scale theories and methods capable of addressing this field of interactive architecture. While the concepts and cases presented in this book might work as theoretical and methodological indicators there are also several very practical and real indicators of a movement from rather small-scale development projects of new textures towards the application of such textures in full-scale architecture, as the following examples will illustrate."[Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies, Mikael Wiberg, 2010]

04. "The method as proposed in this book is not a tool for addressing this gap. However, it juxtaposes perspectives from the fields of architecture and human-computer interaction. By borrowing a set concepts from the field of architecture to discuss and address interactive architecture, we can challenge a set of architecturally rooted concepts from an interaction design perspective in an attempt to refine concepts with roots in both the field of architecture, and in interaction design, i. e. an architectural register for interaction."[Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies, Mikael Wiberg, 2010]

05. "They developed a plug-in to host documentation within a package of the architecture model. The structure in that package defines the structure of the document intended to create. It includes references to elements in the architecture model and provides 2 We refer here to disciplines acting mainly on the same architecture level related to requirements engineering and verification. 46 ARCHITECTURE DESCRIPTION containers for additional text. They called it Model-Based Document Generation. Though only rated as proof of concept, it shows a possible way in improving the documentation issue."[Model-Based System Architecture, T. Weilkiens, J. G. Lamm, S. Roth, M. Walker, 2015]

06. "The latter happens if more than one stakeholder share the same concern but need to be served with different architecture description languages. The stringent definition for the multiplicity of architecture view and architecture viewpoint of 0. . 1:1 will result in a considerable number of architecture views. They will partly overlap and cover related issues. The “perspective” as introduced by the TRAK architecture framework [116] (see also Section 16. 3. 7) permits to categorize and group architecture views."[Model-Based System Architecture, T. Weilkiens, J. G. Lamm, S. Roth, M. Walker, 2015]

07. "To help our thinking along this line this final section of the book provides an overview of this new ontology in which IT is embedded and how it now operates as an installed base, followed by a closing curriculum in which I outline a new agenda for approaching this new materiality, while at the same time pointing even further ahead, towards temporal rooms and new spatial engagements. Interactive Architecture and Interaction Landscaping 187 Chapter 9 Interactive Architecture and Interaction Landscaping In this final section of the book I will contrast “Interactive architecture” as an infrastructure, system, structure, and “installed base”, designed with a particular planned use in focus, with the concept of “interaction landscaping” as a framing concept for the actual use of interactive environments."[Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies, Mikael Wiberg, 2010]

08. "So, contrary to this, I suggest an interact architecture agenda that is open for technological explorations while at the same time making use of classical concepts from architecture in new innovative texturation processes of information technologies in physical spaces. fRoM ARchiTecTuRes To enviRonMenTs Not only do we need to relate these new textures available to the concept of buildings, and not only can we rely on architectural thinking when introducing digital elements and technologies in physical spaces."[Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies, Mikael Wiberg, 2010]

09. "In our approach to create one such architectural register for interaction, and to start our work on the construction of a method and approach for generating one such semantics we set out to interlink architecture with interaction design through a cycle that start out in the borrowing of a set concepts from the field of architecture to discuss and address interactive architecture (see arrow 1 in Figure 82)."[Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies, Mikael Wiberg, 2010]

10. "With these two approaches to textures ready at hand we might now be ready to think about our surrounding in terms of textures (i. e. the ability to “read” textures), and we might be ready to both structurally plan for changes in the current textures of our built environment (i. e. the re-writing texturation approach typically labeled “architecture”). Still, in order to understand and work with the so-called “new architecture” including e. g. the area of IA – interactive architecture we need to apply this thinking to modern information technology as a design material possible to texturize, read, and re-write."[Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies, Mikael Wiberg, 2010]