Created: 2025-12-30 01:40:44
Origin: suggested
Selected: The window was assimilated into the façade-skin, losing  its autonomy as an element. The window as a device that selects a view on the  outside was sacrificed to achieve abundant light inside or total transparency  to the outside. The glass-brick façade of Chareau's Maison de Verre in Paris  is an apotheosis of the first desire,9 while Philip Johnson's Glass House was  conceived as a perfect embodiment of the second, and both had an immediate  and wide circulation in the architectural press.[INPUT: window.pdf]

--- Context List ---
01. "See page 21 for more information on skylight glazing . (Continued on page 20) STAINED GLASS A COLORFUL ALTERNATIVE Elegant, nostalgic, and colorfuL stained glass can turn a window into a work of art. With its combinations of hues and patterns and with the changing light of day, stained glass can liven up any room. Even after dark, you can turn on the room lights and enjoy the translucent tapestry of stained glass from your patio or garden. Depending on its design, a stained glass window can also provide privacy both at night and duringthe day."[*Windows & skylights* Menlo Park, Calif: Lane Pub. Co, 1982.]

02. "If you're concerned about bleaching the color from fabrics and other materials, you may want to use glass that filters out the ultraviolet light in sunshine. Textured glass, available in a number of patterns and colors, is used for light with privacy and for decorative purposes. Light passing through the glass can create pleasing patterns of sunlight on your walls and floor. Salety glass may be required by local building codes for certain situations and is always a good choice where a person could walk into a door or window."[*Windows & skylights* Menlo Park, Calif: Lane Pub. Co, 1982.]

03. "When appropriately framed, stained glass can add a beautiful appearance and works well with windows receiving a lot of light. Not only is a glass treatment pure joy from an artistic point of view, but it also presents additional possibilities for some people as well. Glass panels are perfect for behind garden tubs in the bathroom, or on patios for privacy. While previously used to primarily enhance windows and doors, contemporary home designers are using stained glass to enhance and create entire spaces in homes."[M.K., Makridakis, and Holland M. *How to Create Rooms of Radiance. Windows Treatments Made Simple*. 2003.]

04. "Glass has become invisible. Thus, the inherent properties of glass, along with its technical capabilities, allow designers to choose the degree of material presence of glass. 82 The Innovative Use of Materials in Architecture and Landscape Architecture Glass can “reﬂect, bend, transmit, and absorb light” (Bell 2006: 14). Manipulating these inherent characteristics of reﬂectance, transmittance and absorbency alters the experience of light through glass. Glass windows and enclosures fracture sensory experience into distinct perceptions."[Yglesias, Caren *The Innovative Use of Materials in Architecture and Landscape Architecture: History, Theory and Performance*. McFarland, 2014.]

05. "Beveled Glass Doors Stained glass window Glass blocks are used in a window that separates rooms. Block Glass Window Panel Try glass blocks instead of a room screen or etched glass to create a view. This option is definitely a unique way to set your windows apart from the average, while still providing privacy. [page 95] Windows Treatments Made Simple 11. 5 Matching Hard Window Treatments to Your Decorating Style!Traditional – Go with fabric textured horizontal blinds or balloon, pleated or fabric roll shades."[M.K., Makridakis, and Holland M. *How to Create Rooms of Radiance. Windows Treatments Made Simple*. 2003.]

06. "In general, it can be said that the transmittance through sheet glass, plate glass and float glass is approximately 85-90% in the visible region of the spectrum. Rough cast glass transmits approximately 80% and ornamental glass 70--85 %, depending on the pattern. By special mechanical or chemical surface treatments it is possible to obtain glass giving reduced glare effects from lighting points. The surfaces of the glass are lightly textured and therefore give a 'diffuse' reflection."[(auth.), Rune Persson *Flat Glass Technology*. Springer US, 1969.]

07. "The performative characteristics of glass have been enhanced by coatings that are applied during production, ﬁlms applied post-installation, and designed glass assemblies. Thin tin oxide coatings are blown onto the glass surface in a chemical vapor deposition step during production. The result is called low-emissivity, or Low-E, glass, which suppresses radiative heat ﬂow by blocking solar heat from entering a building in the summer while preventing internal heat from escaping in the winter. While about 8 percent of daylight is reﬂected off untreated glass surfaces, anti-reﬂective glass ﬁlms reduce the reﬂectivity to 1 percent."[Yglesias, Caren *The Innovative Use of Materials in Architecture and Landscape Architecture: History, Theory and Performance*. McFarland, 2014.]

08. "The glass is also free of the distortions that can occur from the heat-treating process. Some point-fixed facades have used a laminated glass panel design combining a tempered back ply to provide optimum strength with an annealed outer ply to reduce distortion in reflected images. Most laminated glass is simply comprised of the interlayer material between two glass sheets: a two-ply panel. Multi-ply laminates have become common over the past two decades, however, in structural glass and security applications, as mentioned previously."[Patterson, Mic *Structural Glass Facades and Enclosures : a Vocabulary of Transparency*. Chichester: John Wiley & Sons, 2011.]

09. "1210-15 produce small tiles of glass, bonded a pattern that reflects but Although invention, stained glass owes The arrangement to a base structure such as stone, to does not transmit light. The process of making transparent stained glass matured during the Middle Ages, when the windows were great stained-glass first most stained glass served century, change in a religious purpose, but Tiffany helped to new genres of stained glass, such as landscapes, windows made up the vast majority of Tiffany's commis- stained glass."[Warmus, William *The Essential Louis Comfort Tiffany*. Harry N. Abrams, Inc., 2001.]

10. "See pages 288 and 289 to finish the walls, and pages 144 to 155 to trim the interior of the window. Glass Block Windows Glass block is a durable material that transmits light while reducing visibility, making it a perfect material for creating unique windows. Glass block windows are energy-efficient and work particularly well as accent windows or in rooms where privacy is desired, such as bathrooms. Glass block is available in a wide variety of sizes, shapes, and patterns. It can be found, along with other necessary installation products, at specialty distributors or home centers."[coll. *The Complete Guide to Windows & Entryways*. Cool Springs Press, 2008.]

11. "Skylights Skylights allow daylight into interior building spaces and can range from a simple glass panel to a highly functional energy-conserving device. More common skylights include those made of glass, plastic, and reflective tubing. Glass panel skylights. These are normally panels of wired or strengthened glass that are held in a metal frame that is either f lush with or raised slightly from the plane of a roof."[Dodson, David W., and John Mittendorf *The Art of Reading Buildings*. PennWell,Fire Engineering Books, 2014.]

12. "In isolating the window from the rest of the building the authors have drawn on standard field guides to American architecture for general dates for architectural style. 'Some of the research collected in preparing this material was previously published. 'Many terms used in this overview are defined in the glossary. GLASS MAKING Glass manufacturing markedly influenced window design. The size, shape, and other visual characteristics of the glass pane established the design parameters of windows before the Civil War."[York, New *Repairing Old and Historic Windows: A Manual for Architects and Homeowners*. Washington, D.C: Preservation Press, National Trust for Historic Preservation, 1992.]

13. "• The corners of glass panels shall be ‘rounded’ by removal of material at the corners and subsequent finishing of glass edges in the modified corner regions to minimize protrusions & edge surface roughness as well as to increase the dynamic displacement magnitude. • Laminated glass should be used in view of its inherent properties. General guidelines for installation as well as handling of glass have been discussed in this chapter for successful glazing operation in buildings Reference Material 125 Reference Material Use of Glass in Buildings 126 REFERENCE MATERIAL 1."[Garg, N.K. *Guidelines for Use of Glass in Buildings*. New Age Publications (Academic), 2007.]

14. "Gold Red Applications: Used in doors and windows. Carbon & Amber, brown 10 Use of Glass in Buildings 2. 1. 3. 3 Patterned, figured or rolled glass: It is a decorative and translucent glass with figures or patterns on one face. In addition to diffusing light and obstructing visibility from the outside, the figures soften the interior lighting. This type of glass is usually more fragile and less convenient to clean. Applications: Interiors of the buildings, opaque glazing like bathrooms etc. 2. 1. 3. 4 Wired glass: It has wire mesh incorporated during its production."[Garg, N.K. *Guidelines for Use of Glass in Buildings*. New Age Publications (Academic), 2007.]

15. "Clerestory Also clearstory, high-light window. A window in the upper part of a lofty room that admits light to the center of the room. Closure Strip A member to fill or close a space; an in-fill piece. Coated Glass A window glass with an outside surface provided with a mirror-reflective surface; the shading coefficient ranges from 20 to 45 percent. See also shading coefficient. Combination Window Unit Also combination storm sash and screen. A window assembly containing a half screen and two glass storm panels; in summer the bottom storm panel is stored in the top frame, exposing the screen panel."[York, New *Repairing Old and Historic Windows: A Manual for Architects and Homeowners*. Washington, D.C: Preservation Press, National Trust for Historic Preservation, 1992.]

16. "Future developments in interlayer material science can be expected. Chapter 6: Glass as a Structural Material systems offer optimum transparency. Laminated systems can develop higher strength capacity and provide redundancy to the system. Glass fin facades have been constructed with spans in excess of 100 ft (30 m). All-glass structures are one thing, but the use of glass as a structural component does not end there. The glass fin facades established the glass fin as a structural member. It has now been employed in a number of applications as a component of a hierarchical structural system."[Patterson, Mic *Structural Glass Facades and Enclosures : a Vocabulary of Transparency*. Chichester: John Wiley & Sons, 2011.]

17. "Also, this type of glass can allow the interior temperature to rise to a higher level before failing as compared to the common single-pane glass windows, and can increase the chance of a flashover as well as subject interior personnel to higher levels of heat. Although not a type of glass, there are numerous glass coatings or films that can be added to existing glass for energy conservation, noise reduction, and protection from falling glass in earthquakes."[Dodson, David W., and John Mittendorf *The Art of Reading Buildings*. PennWell,Fire Engineering Books, 2014.]

18. "1936 Berghof estate, Bavaria Hochtief AG. 2010 Trump Soho,  New York, Handel  Architects,  Rockwell Group. 2012 Abraj Al-Bait  Towers, Saudi Arabia,  SL Rasch GmbH and  Dar Al-Handasah  Architects. 2017 Elbphilharmonie,  Hamburg, Herzog &  de Meuron. 1969 IBM Building, Chicago,  Mies van der Rohe. WINDOW VS. GLASS Glass, which initially seemed the perfect partner for the window -  transparent,  flat strong -  overwhelmed the window during the 20th century, culminating  in the curtain wall. Advances in glass technology allow many of the former  accoutrements of the window -  shading devices, bars for security, handles  with which to open the window -  to be internalized in the glass itself, or made  or discarded entirely. Glass takes on new roles beyond providing light:  it controls solar gain, radiation, insulation, generates energy, conveys digitized  information. . . "[INPUT: window.pdf]

19. "Designers should use this chart to obtain 60-second duration equivalent design loads for laminated glass and insulating glass fabricated using laminated glass. The values in the chart do not apply to any monolithic glass type, insulating glass fabricated with monolithic glass lites only, or to monolithic glass with retrofit window film. In comparing designs obtained using values from this chart, the authors observe that designers using this approach will obtain laminated glass thickness designations equal to or slightly higher than they would obtain using more esoteric procedures."[Valerie L. Block, editor *The Use of Glass in Buildings: 1st Symposium on the Use of Glass in Buildings, 2002, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania (ASTM Special Technical Publication, 1434)*. 2002.]

20. "Tiffany the innovator The technique of manufacturing stained-glass windows had remained unchanged ical since the Middle Ages, but Tiffany and La Farge made rad- innovations that forever changed the art of stained glass. Stained- glass windows had always been made from flat panes of white and colored glass that were inserted into rods) (i. e. , and held together with lead slender, channeled lead of using the traditional bland) palette of colors, Tiffany developed a form of opalescent glass that exhibited a rainbowlike, opal carries (i. e. , solder."[Warmus, William *The Essential Louis Comfort Tiffany*. Harry N. Abrams, Inc., 2001.]

21. "At a subtle level, the unsettling and disconcerting ‘discrepancy’ adds to the stress of sensory confusion. Working – or living – under tinted glass and artiﬁcial light inhibits the pineal gland’s ﬂow of serotonin, which reduces our sense of vitality and aliveness to the point where, after a time, we feel drowsy and fatigued. Dark tinted glass or mirrored glass have produced dramatic façades and are effective against solar heat gain, however glass manufacturers have now developed a virtually clear glass to ﬁlter out the radiant heat from the Sun."[Saunders, Thomas *The Boiled Frog Syndrome: Your Health and the Built Environment*. 2002.]

22. "Alternative fixing method Details 1. Laminated glass sheet, single glazed or outer layer of double glazed unit 2. Silicone seal 3. Stainless steel angle 4. Spacer 5. Supporting structure 1 1 2 1 3 3D sectional view showing glass panel floor build up with stone flooring and steel supporting structure Glass floors are used to enhance naturally lit spaces by allowing light to pass through to spaces below. The primary material used is typically either glass sheet or glass blocks. Where glass sheet is used, laminated glass is set into a steel frame, giving it as much lightness and transparency as possible."[Watts, Andrew *Modern Construction Handbook*. Ambra Verlag, 2013.]

23. "Base upstand, Junction with adjacent material Horizontal section 1:20 of typical rooflight layout 3D view of typical roof light assembly 1 3 2 1 3 2 3D Details showing glass to glass junctions MCH_ 238 System design The method of silicone bonding glass to aluminium framing is well developed for use in glazed curtain walling to provide visually smooth glass facades with no visible cappings. The use of silicone sealed rooflights can be taken a step further to become a full bond without the need for the mechanical restraint of pressure plates."[Watts, Andrew *Modern Construction Handbook*. Ambra Verlag, 2013.]

24. "Some designers attempt to devise "strong" monolithic window glass lites or window glass constructions to resist a design air blast pressure without fracture. Many factors NORVlLLE AND CONRATH ON BLAST-RESISTANT GLASS 163 tend to make this approach undesirable. First, any window glass construction designed to withstand even an air blast pressure loading of low magnitude would be very thick and would most probably involve heat treated window glass. Such window glass constructions would have prohibitive costs."[Valerie L. Block, editor *The Use of Glass in Buildings: 1st Symposium on the Use of Glass in Buildings, 2002, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania (ASTM Special Technical Publication, 1434)*. 2002.]

25. "Light-sensitive glass; by courtesy of Corning Glass Works 48 THE DAYLIGHT FACTOR windows. Photochromic glasses have been developed by Corning Glass Works. These glasses contain submicroscopic crystals which darken under exposure to light."[(auth.), Rune Persson *Flat Glass Technology*. Springer US, 1969.]