Created: 2025-12-27 02:37:23
Origin: searched
Selected: This staircase is apparently simple on plan, with a straight flight at each floor rising to a half-landing and then branching into two symmetrical curvilinear flights. Such a simple description belies the incredibly complex views created in a stair that ascends in a rich crimson oval shaft through three storeys. It remains one of the world’s most theatrical and exhilarating staircases.[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

--- Context List ---
01. "¡ e x a c t it u d e I Symbolic stairs are exactly ingrained and attached down  ' to,he last millimeter or tenth of a millimeter. But in places  PJBpre it doesn't really matter, such as side-stairs or also in  lurches, one finds a motley assortment of dimensions. such cases, a second or third-rate craftsman was  working with the materials at his disposal. So we came to  the realization that the exactitude of the stairs' dimensions  was directly related to their significance. The emperor, king  0r Prince had exactly constructed stairs. The beggar is not "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

02. "How dull, in contrast, are intact stairs who stand with ease, paying no attention to the perfect state of their matter. Such stairs rise despite their steps. The function transcends the material. The material is instrumental to an overriding activity that pursues its goal without noticeable difficulty. A flight of stairs is but of fleeting interest, unless it is a new and remarkable form."[Ginsberg, Robert *The Aesthetics of Ruins: Illustrated by the Author*. Rodopi, 2004.]

03. "PAGE 228 STAIR 14. 1996 Spiritual stairs between earth and heaven STAIR PAGE 229 STAIR PAGE 230 15. 1999  Gothic and Renaissance stairs The premise for this research was the idea  that a new feel for life intrinsically had to  produce new products, that alongside the  emergence of a new architecture, new  stairs would arise. The stairs form part of valuable haptic  experiences. Among all the building  components, they reflect most accurately  the habits of its users. An examination of  their original texture and their consequent  changes may allow for conclusions to be  drawn, which can answer the question  raised above regarding the time when  lifestyles changed. In order to obtain the  most convincing results possible, this  general question is broken down into  14 sub-items: "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

04. "Applications for the copyright holder's written permission to reproduce any part of this publication should be addressed to the publishers British Library Cataloguing in Publication Data Blanc, Sylvia Stairs. ± 2nd ed. 1. Staircases 2. Stairs I. Title II. Blanc, Alan 721. 8 0 32 Library of Congress Cataloguing in Publication Data A catalogue record for this book is available from the Library of Congress ISBN 0 7506 4846 5 Printed and bound in Great Britain Contents Foreword vii 1 Introduction 1 2 Civic and public stairs 3 Commercial stairs 4 Domestic stairs 5 External stairs 5 29 47 70 6 Detailed construction: timber 92 7 Detailed construction: iron, steel and other metals 114 8 Concrete stairs 136 9 Stonework and composite construction 151 10 Design codes and procedures 11 Elevators and mechanical circulation 178 12 International case studies 13 Case studies in the UK Epilogue Index 230 231 200 213 158 This Page Intentionally Left Blank Foreword It is cause for wonderment that the seemingly mundane device de®ned as `a means of passing from one level to another by increments, more or less comforable ± the vertical measures known as risers and the horizontal goings as treads' has, through history, generated such richly charged cultural and technical invention."[Blanc, Sylvia, and Alan Blanc *Stairs, Second Edition*. Architectural Press, 2001.]

05. "Some people still protest that such a distinction should still be made – that the word ‘staircase’ should mean the enclosure and not the stair. However, this definition does not reflect either the OED or common usage. As the OED admits, the word staircase is now (and has been for some time) used to mean ‘a flight of stairs or sometimes a whole series of flights of stairs with their supporting framework, balusters etc. ’ This book will follow the OED definition and the general understanding, that a staircase means the whole, made up of stairs, balusters, handrails, etc."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

06. "This staircase is apparently simple on plan, with a straight flight at each floor rising to a half-landing and then branching into two symmetrical curvilinear flights. Such a simple description belies the incredibly complex views created in a stair that ascends in a rich crimson oval shaft through three storeys. It remains one of the world’s most theatrical and exhilarating staircases."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

07. "The possibilities with cantilevers are more rewarding than standard spirals where bolted connections may loosen. The example at Arnhem City Hall in Figure 7. 5a has a ¯air and verve that equals the ®nest work by Victor Horta. The imaginative use of curved rectangular tube in handrailing recreates the sinuous Figure 7. 3b Folded steel stairs: Pro®les for folded sheet stairs or treads Detailed construction: iron, steel and other metals 121 Figure 7. 3c Folded steel stairs: Finishes to folded plate Figure 7. 3d Folded steel stairs: Individual tread detailing qualities associated with metals and is employed to maximum effect where the rails terminate as newels."[Blanc, Sylvia, and Alan Blanc *Stairs, Second Edition*. Architectural Press, 2001.]

08. "Other dimensions apply to curved stairs 16 . Other factors relevant to stair safety include lighting, slip resistance, single steps (most codes prohibit flights of fewer than three steps), handrails, and inability to detect the edge of the tread due to lack of contrast. REVIEW OF INTERNATIONAL CODE REQUIREMENTS FOR EGRESS STAIRS The building regulations summarized below are from countries that are widely disbursed and culturally different, and should be representative of any range of methods used to treat egress."[Bukowski, Richard W. *Emergency Egress From Buildings*. National Institute of Standards and Technology, 2009.]

09. "For stairs, occupants first ascended and then descended stairs after a 5-min rest. No information was provided about the number of steps or stair dimensions, but the speed was measured along the slope of the stairs. Forty-two subjects were able to participate in the stair portion of the experiment. Of these, 8 did not have a disability, 4 needed assistance from another person, and 30 had a disability, but were able to use the stairs without the assistance from another person."[Hoskins, Bryan L., and James A. Milke (auth.) *Study of Movement Speeds Down Stairs*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2013.]

10. "The so-called 7/11 stair geometry commonly required in US codes meets the relation 2R+G=635. Templer 15 summarizes a number of research studies of stair geometry and safety. Many such studies were conducted by observing people moving up or down stairs in buildings. Observations in subway or train stations at rush hours provided data for higher population densities."[Bukowski, Richard W. *Emergency Egress From Buildings*. National Institute of Standards and Technology, 2009.]

11. "1985; Shields et al. 2009) times were given on a per floor basis. However most of the authors instead calculated speed based on a measured distance within the stairs. When descending stairs in a high-rise building, travel distance in stairs needs to include both travel on landings and treads. The differences in the studies regarding travel distance stemmed from which components were included and, if included, how the travel distance was calculated."[Hoskins, Bryan L., and James A. Milke (auth.) *Study of Movement Speeds Down Stairs*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2013.]

12. "Stairs in Pathfinder Stairs are represented in Pathfinder through straight-run of steps. The model requires the input data about riser, tread and width (see Fig. 4. 21). In Pathfinder, the specified tread rise and run are the factors considered in the calculation, i. e. , the simulation is not dependent on the geometric slope of the stairs. Stairways denote areas where the maximum occupant speed is controlled by an alternate specific calculation."[Ronchi, Enrico, and Daniel Nilsson (auth.) *Assessment of Total Evacuation Systems for Tall Buildings*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2014.]

13. "The likelihood of the agents to wait in a queue is determined by their patience coefficient. The model permits to represent the interactions between horizontal and vertical components. Stairs in STEPS There are two different methods to simulate stairs in STEPS. A possible method is the use of the stair menu (see Fig. 4. 24). This menu permits to define the geometric characteristics of the stairs (e. g. , width, height, handrails, walking side, etc."[Ronchi, Enrico, and Daniel Nilsson (auth.) *Assessment of Total Evacuation Systems for Tall Buildings*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2014.]

14. "Die  Scalalogie  unterscheidet  sich  in  geistiger  Weise  von  den  technischen Bauaufnahmen der Treppenforschung. Die  Scalalogie  ist  der  philosophische  Überbau  aller  profanen  Fertigkeiten STAIR PAGE 45 Sr. mielke, how many  stairs have you measured  ¡n your lifetime? an't say. I never counted. I would estimate maybe  oilOO both inside and outside. Hg 1-21 just registered them  ' ¡nCjex cards without counting/ 9 ^  I measured maybe 100  Holland, even more in France. It was wonderful training  body building with stairs. Stairs are seldom described.  !Lre are few books about stairs. . . some older books.  "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

15. "■Wtich Mielke, Scalalogia Volume 6,  jp  ectaneen 3, 1992, "Laurin-Treppe," 88-91. PAGE 168 STAIR -  10. 1992 SCALALOGY -  COLLECTED WRITINGS (VOL 3) MIELKE-LAURIN STAIR Mielke's adaptation of the Laurin  stair. The continuity of the tread  depths combined with the  differentiation of the riser  heights "results in challenging  the stair user with changing  lengths of step, which activates1 0 0 0  mm  their reactions. The basic  premise of this thought is that,  when climbing a stair, the length  of step is more essential than  the effort of shifting one's  weight up or down the stairs. "  (Redrawn by AMO, Dune 2013. ) "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

16. "1372 Prague Veitsdom: southern transept,  diagram showing staggered spiral staircase,  Peter Parler. "Single-run, poly-centric staggered  spiral staircase. " 1538 Nürnberg Albrecht Dürer: "Unterweysung der Messung mit dem Zirckel und Richtscheyt. "  ("Instruction for dimensioning with Circle and  Protractor. ") In the beginning there was an idea,  not a task, and last functionality. Spiral  staircases are at the same time wonder- ful and whimsical constructs. One  must wonder why people would have  the idea to build helical, twisted stairs. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

17. "H o w e ve r, once the tread is of sufficient  depth/ and in order to allow the stair  user to step pro- and regressively  without falling into a potentially  dangerous monotony, it is appropriate  to modify Baumler's idea. A first variant is proposed by the  Centre for Stair Research. It maintains  all treads of one flight at the same  depth. This, combined with differential  riser heights, results in challenging the  stair user with changing lengths of  step, which activates their reactions. The basic premise of this thought is  that, when climbing a stair, the length  of step is more essential than the effort  of shifting one's weight up or down  the stairs. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

18. "This adjustment of measurements  based on practical experience proves  Palladio's interest in building stairs that  were comfortable for people to use. "W hereas stairs in the M iddle A  w ere m eaningless clim bing  s  for which comfort played no role  com fort becam e the deciding fa^   in stair design during the Renais-^  sance. M an becam e the determining m easure. ""[INPUT: stair.pdf]

19. "Those with short legs can climb the stairs on the  inside of the spiral, while those with long legs have enough  space to climb on the outside of the spiral. "There is  enough space for every length of stride. That was the point  when my initial interest in stairs was awakened. I realized  that stairs were not only the means to climb to another  room, but that one should consider who is climbing the  stairs."[INPUT: stair.pdf]

20. "I a pillar, east of the Golden Gate.  ^¡s staircase is remarkable in many rsgpects. ln the 14th century, it w as not yet  customary to place a spiral staircase outside. Stairs were considered insignificant  and were thus hidden in the thickness  of the stonework. Stairs were not yet  participants in architecture. 1372 St. Vitus Cathedral, Prague, southern  transept, scheme of the staggered spiral  staircase, on a square plan, Peter Parler. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

21. "Palladio wanted a riser measuring a  maximum of V i  foot (= 6 inches = 17. 52  cm) and a minimum of 4 inches (= 11. 68 cm). He also decreased Alberti's Palladio proves himself to be a master  builder of the Renaissance when he  writes that stairs should be 'com m ode  al salire' and 'quanto a gli homini se  non haveranno I'ascesa loro difficile  and erta' ("The stairs should be  comfortable to climb and should pose  no difficulty and steep incline for the  people. " Villa Rotonda: "The square enclosure  of the central circle left  some interstitial space,  into which the architect  placed the stairs to the  upper levels. The stairs  were not a factor of the  initial design consideration, but a leftover,  crammed into a plan  which was complete in  principle. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

22. "Cantilevered stairs have been described in the previous chapters. They provide an excellent example of the variety of ways that engineers become involved, whether the stairs are traditional in form and materials, or are modern feature stairs built in new materials. The way these stairs ‘work’ structurally has been the subject of much debate between engineers for many years."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

23. "Friedrich Mielke, "Typen -  Monzentrische  isoradiale Wendeltreppenanlagen mit vier Läufen  -  Quadrupelwendeltreppen," Handbuch der  Treppenkunde (Hannnover: Th. Schäfer Verlag,  1993), 164. PAGE 210 STAIR -  12. 1993 HANDBOOK OF STAIRS the Imperial staircase Amongst the many possible  combinations for straight stairs, there is  one typology which has enjoyed a  special popularity. It has two variations  which create the same running figure,  but in opposite climbing directions. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

24. "This is one of the seldom cases of  an import, which one could describes  an enriching incursion into Eichstatt's  tradition of stair building. 1746 Balustrade, drawing by A. Losch. 1748 Balustrade,  drawing by ]. H. Min. Post 'beginner' at  beginning and end of  stair banister. STAIR PAGE 143 ■BUster stair builder  HSie resulting  «l|£. ence in height to  ^■ bhe beginning o’  ^H |ir balustrade wstti  appealing detail  ,i|of level  g tl  jfefaces. he empha- "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

25. "The desire to provide comfort can be seen,  even after 160 years, in the design of the stairs. Friedrich Mielke, Scalalogia Volume 7,  Treppen in Ingolstadt, 1992,"Vorwort," 7-10. 1875 1886 (stair)  i  Am Stein 1 Commercial and  residential: straight wooden stair turninQa,  center, vase-shaped  balusters (Dodcen) 1 1909 Am Stein 3 Commercial and  residential: straight '  wooden stair with two  runs and a turning  I   landing, upper part  with, lower part with^fl  stringers: goose-neck"!  balusters on the lower  levels, baluster posts 1  (Traljen) on the upper- 1  most run. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]