Created: 2025-12-23 19:01:45
Origin: suggested
Selected: The impression of unity and diversity remains when we leave the two-dimensional world of location patterns and infrastructure and include the design and appearance of actual shops themselves in our story. The thing that stands out for the early modern period is the huge variety of retail facilities. Firstly, in accordance with the centrality of markets and fairs in retailing, we see the dominance of stalls. But even within that category numerous variants existed. Some stalls were taken down every night and must have been made of canvas with wooden frames; others were semi-permanent or permanent and built in wood or even stone.[Furnée, Jan Hein, and Clé Lesger (eds.) *The Landscape of Consumption: Shopping Streets and Cultures in Western Europe, 1600–1900*. Palgrave Macmillan UK, 2014.]

--- Context List ---
01. "The impression of unity and diversity remains when we leave the two-dimensional world of location patterns and infrastructure and include the design and appearance of actual shops themselves in our story. The thing that stands out for the early modern period is the huge variety of retail facilities. Firstly, in accordance with the centrality of markets and fairs in retailing, we see the dominance of stalls. But even within that category numerous variants existed. Some stalls were taken down every night and must have been made of canvas with wooden frames; others were semi-permanent or permanent and built in wood or even stone."[Furnée, Jan Hein, and Clé Lesger (eds.) *The Landscape of Consumption: Shopping Streets and Cultures in Western Europe, 1600–1900*. Palgrave Macmillan UK, 2014.]

02. "It is clear from the archives of building applications in Brussels that retailers were investing all century long in improving the appearance of both their shop windows and their shop frontages. Advances in technology created new possibilities for increasingly impressive shop windows and spectacular window displays. 19 The archives of building plans at the Brussels City Archives are filled with building applications for altering shop windows and shop fronts and in travel guides there is talk of ‘élégantes vitrines’. 20 The rise of the art of window dressing and the deployment of architecture as an advertising strategy is usually associated with department stores."[Furnée, Jan Hein, and Clé Lesger (eds.) *The Landscape of Consumption: Shopping Streets and Cultures in Western Europe, 1600–1900*. Palgrave Macmillan UK, 2014.]

03. "The development towards glazed shops occurred in all the cities and countries discussed in this volume, but not simultaneously. Capitals such as London and Paris led the way, cities in Belgium and the Netherlands followed, and Heidrun Homburg’s study shows that in Germany, markets retained a broad function for much longer and the transition to a retail landscape with mostly closed shops set in relatively late. But, wherever displays in front of the facade disappeared, the facade itself and the shop window gained in importance."[Furnée, Jan Hein, and Clé Lesger (eds.) *The Landscape of Consumption: Shopping Streets and Cultures in Western Europe, 1600–1900*. Palgrave Macmillan UK, 2014.]

04. "62 Glossary antemurabilus ashlar Second or outer walls. Stone cut into rectangular blocks and laid in rows. bailey, bailli Fortified enclosure within a castle. Outer defensive enclosure of a castle barbican or city, usually outside a gate. barrel vault Vaulting in the form of an elongated arch. bastion Projecting or additional part of a fortification. Slope, usually on the outer face, batter of a fortified waiL Low and extended platform to form boulevard an artillery emplacement in front of a fortified wall."[Turnbull, Stephen, and Peter Dennis *Fortress 11: Crusader Castles of the Teutonic Knights AD*. Osprey, 2003.]

05. "embrasure Opening in a fortified wall, tower, crenellation or other structure through which the defenders can shoot. enceinte fausse braie fieldstones fo re walls fosse galleries glacis hoarding huchette keep machicolation mahone merlons moat portcullis posterns put-log redoubt salient towers spur-castle talus terrepleine undercroft ward Curtain wall. Low-walled outwork. Naturally available rocks or small boulders. Additional defensive walls in front of the main defensive walls and towers."[Turnbull, Stephen, and Peter Dennis *Fortress 11: Crusader Castles of the Teutonic Knights AD*. Osprey, 2003.]

06. "Minbar: mosque, reached by and often canopied. a pulpit in a Mosque: see Masjid. Muqarnas: a type of ceiling decoration and connecting link between ceiling and walls, made up of scalloped layers of masonry. It is also known as stalactite work. Pier: a masonry support, more solid in composition than a column, the latter usually having only a single shaft. Portico: a roofed area, open or partly enclosed, and often with columns. Qibla: in a mosque, the wall nearest to Mecca. Ribat: in Islamic architecture, a fortified monastery."[Mandel, Gabriele *How to Recognize Islamic Art*. Penguin Books, 1979.]

07. "(Author's photograph) 50 arches in what would seem to have been an Italian fashion (3). Many of the smaller rectangular towers were much simpler, being partially open at the back (4) and with wooden floors, in a style common in Byzantine, Balkan, and some early Ottoman military architecture. There also seems to have been a group of substantial towers or fortified structures where the land walls met those facing the sea, perhaps creating a strongly defended entrance complex (5). How much of the interior of the walled town was built up with commercial premises, houses, orchards, and gardens (6) is unclear."[Turnbull, Stephen, and Peter Dennis *Fortress 11: Crusader Castles of the Teutonic Knights AD*. Osprey, 2003.]

08. "87). These are also the standard form of efficacious paintings being displayed to the eye for beneficial effects in the court dietary manual Yinshan zhengyao of 1330 (see illus. 110). ²² The interest in creating a completely illusory domestic space – thus far, we have seen large window or door frames through which extensive outdoor precincts are pictured – is carried on above the vertical walls. The lower part of the ceiling vault comprises a series of illusory architectural tiers. The tier immediately above the painted scenes is painted with lozenge-shaped faux-bois beam panels, centred above the main paintings and set within brackets decorated with cloud or ruyi shapes (see top of illus."[McCausland, Shane *The Mongol Century: Visual Cultures of Yuan China, 1271–1368*. Reaktion Books, 2015.]

09. "Great crenellated ramparts, cyclopean, superb, follow the curve of the cliff. On the landward side they are interrupted by a gate−tower resting on one of the most nobly decorated of the horseshoe arches that break the mighty walls of Moroccan cities. Underneath the tower the vaulted entrance turns, Arab fashion, at right angles, profiling its red arch against darkness and mystery. This bending of passages, so characteristic a device of the Moroccan builder, is like an architectural expression of the tortuous secret soul of the land."[wharton, Edith *In Morocco*. 2014.]

10. "A basic typology for the architecture of local shrines can be proposed which at its simplest comprises a marked grave. A second stage of development is represented by a rectangular cenotaph, often with a rounded or keel-shaped top. A third stage might involve the construction of a square domed tomb chamber over the tomb, whilst subsequent stages might 88 A. PETERSEN involve the construction of a riwaq or vaulted stone canopy adjacent to the tomb chamber. Multiple variants are possible, and in many cases, the actual tomb or cenotaph might be outside the domed chamber."[(auth.), Andrew Petersen *Bones of Contention: Muslim Shrines in Palestine*. Palgrave Macmillan, 2018.]

11. "For example, the shrine of Shaykh Maysar in the village of the same name comprises a small rectangular building (7. 5 × 5 m) covered with a dome and the cenotaph of Shaykh Maysar (Petersen 2001, 283). The exterior of the building is clad with stone slabs and the interior surfaces are covered with modern glazed ceramic tiles all of which would be considered inappropriate in conservation terms. In other cases, however, buildings are consolidated and repaired in sympathy with their historic appearance."[(auth.), Andrew Petersen *Bones of Contention: Muslim Shrines in Palestine*. Palgrave Macmillan, 2018.]

12. "Heyden (1838–1902), presented their study for a semi-permanent exhibition building in Berlin as part of the annual exhibition of the Academy of Arts (Figure 2. 3). The proposal was based on, and attempted to synthesize, exhibition models first developed in Paris 1867 (an ellipse with concentric and radial streets) and Vienna 1873 (a fishbone system with a central rotunda) in a new, semi-circular layout with ‘national streets’ and a monumental cupola building. Even if details remained to be discussed, the issue was clearly established as a matter for public debate."[(auth.), Alexander C. T. Geppert *Fleeting Cities: Imperial Expositions in Fin-de-Siècle Europe*. Palgrave Macmillan UK, 2010.]

13. "Essentially, we have to reconstruct Dadu by a judicious comparison of archaeological finds with surviving materials from elsewhere and the use of written sources. An illustrative example of a remarkable surviving building near Dadu, situated 60 km north at Juyongguan on the Great Wall in a narrow pass, is the Cloud Terrace (Yuntai), which was once the base of a tiered temple dating to 1342–5, and is situated literally on top of the road through the pass (illus. 6). The interior of the arch at the base of the Cloud Terrace is decorated in a manner befitting its liminal position between China and Mongolia, on a main artery of transport and communications."[McCausland, Shane *The Mongol Century: Visual Cultures of Yuan China, 1271–1368*. Reaktion Books, 2015.]

14. "Or those on the Kärntnerring good?Neither is the case. There are good and bad buildings in both places, buildings by artists and frauds. But artists and frauds on the Kärntnerring have taken the character of the buildings in Vienna into account, while on the Stubenring neither gave it a thought. Typically Viennese is the straight wall end, without roofs, domes, oriels or other structures. The building law specifies a height of 25 metres to the upper edge of the parapet. But the roof should be exploited and contain studios and other rentable rooms."[Loos, Adolf *Ornament and Crime*. Penguin Books Ltd, 2019.]

15. "So what is the difference between Art Deco and modernism?The term ‘modernism’ in architecture conjures up white rendered walls, flat roofs, metal-framed windows and curved glass corners. Art Deco architecture also often possesses these qualities, but with prominent and sometimes flashy ornamentation. Modernism had the motto ‘Less is more’ and excessive ornament was frowned upon, as can be seen in the iconic Bauhaus building (1925) in Dessau, the work of Walter Gropius, who was one of the giants of the modern movement in architecture."[Lemmen, Hans *Art Deco Tiles*. Shire Publications, 2012.]