Created: 2025-12-29 22:16:02
Origin: searched
Selected: The element to which Tschumi turned was time. In the Parc de la Villette project, especially, the grid and follies upon which the park is based do not represent a dispersion of the body via a decentering of modernist form so much as an attempt to create events in space: At a conceptual level, randomness can be better applied to events, actions, and programs than to physical form itself. So at La Villette the system of physical forms is there to allow the random—the event—to take place. 71 Tuschmi’s notion of architecture as “space, event, and movement” is an extension of Johnson’s claim that architecture exists in time, not space.[Waldrep, Shelton *The Dissolution of Place: Architecture, Identity, and the Body*. Ashgate Pub Co, 2013.]

--- Context List ---
01. "The element to which Tschumi turned was time. In the Parc de la Villette project, especially, the grid and follies upon which the park is based do not represent a dispersion of the body via a decentering of modernist form so much as an attempt to create events in space: At a conceptual level, randomness can be better applied to events, actions, and programs than to physical form itself. So at La Villette the system of physical forms is there to allow the random—the event—to take place. 71 Tuschmi’s notion of architecture as “space, event, and movement” is an extension of Johnson’s claim that architecture exists in time, not space."[Waldrep, Shelton *The Dissolution of Place: Architecture, Identity, and the Body*. Ashgate Pub Co, 2013.]

02. "The tone receives meaning only within the functional structure of the system, without which it would be a merely physical entity. Superstition alone can hope to extract from it a latent aesthetic structure. One speaks, with good reason, of a sense of space (Raumgefühl) in architecture. But this sense of space is not a pure, abstract essence, not a sense of spatiality itself, since space is only conceivable as concrete space, within specific dimensions. A sense of space is closely connected with purposes."[Leach, Neil *Rethinking Architecture: A Reader in Cultural Theory*. Routledge, 1997.]

03. "As we will see later, I will pro93 Part Zero: The Architecture _o. i General Approach pose to step another level up to enter the world of swarming behavioral space, leaving frozen 3D space like an experienced time-traveler would, or leaving Flatland like an inhabitant of Space. Programming the Point Cloud The recent ONL (Oosterhuis_Lenard) projects like the WEB of North-Holland, the Acoustic Barrier and the Cockpit building are based on the new building paradigm of mass-customization and the new design paradigm of programming soft design machines."[Betsky, Aaron, Ole Bouman, David Deutsch, Elizabeth Diller Ricardo Scofidio, Monika Fleischmann Wolfgang Strauss, Sulan Kolatan William Mac Donald, and William J. Mitchell et al. *Disappearing Architecture: From Real to Virtual to Quantum*. Birkhäuser Architecture, 2001.]

04. "The space so expressed is not one internal to a frame or closed system - such conceptions of space always lead us back to an image of a static or firmly bounded system, from which nothing escapes and in which everything is firmly anchored in place (contained in co-ordinates) and subject to illumination and observation (the erroneous dream of the panoptic state). There will always be something that escapes the fixity of boundaries and totalizing points of view. It is to this space beyond the frame that the interaction image turns and returns."[O’Connor, Daniel M. *Mediated Associations: Cinematic Dimensions of Social Theory*. McGill-Queen’s University Press, 2002.]

05. "This means that unlike trajectories, which represent the actual states of objects in the world, attractors are never actualized , since no point of trajectory ever reaches the attractor itself. It is in this sense that singularities represent only the long term tendencies of a system, never its actual state. 71 An interworld is this new nature that is not present in nature but is a natural world emerging from the artist’s drawing. He is able to pierce this space through his reliance on a graphic concept that permits him to create a figure in the system, a floating space, and make the painter into a philosopher."[Zdebik, Jakub *Deleuze and the Diagram: Aesthetic Threads in Visual Organization*. London: Continuum, 2012.]

06. "Topology becomes more relevant than geometry: the latter has to do with measurements and locations in an external system of reference, while the former disregards measurement and deals only with the structure of space qua space. Figures and shapes are not placed in space; they constitute spaces in/of their own. As Arkady Plotnitsky (2009, 203) argues, “this view radically transforms our philosophy of space and matter, and of their relationships, by leading to a horizontal rather than vertical (hierarchical) science of space as a ‘typology and topology of manifolds,’ which Deleuze and Guattari associate with the end of dialectic and extend to spaces that are philosophical, aesthetic, cultural, or political. ” Such can be the powerful consequences of a topological understanding of transduction, leading to a non-Euclidean mode of thought—enabling individuations to become space-surfaces of potentially infinite dimensions, and liberating relationships from any form of transcendental determination."[Schwab, Michael *Transpositions: Aesthetico-Epistemic Operators in Artistic Research*. Leuven University Press, 2018.]

07. "Thus, “digital-space” is made commensurate with “real-space,” and not only physical axioms, but also metaphysical axioms are sustained, ensuring that the same epistemological system governing Western thought will continue to operate. For instance, there is the “Principle of Exclusion”—roughly equating to the law of identity—whereby two identical objects cannot share the same space at the same time. 1 8 The “Principle of Maximal Exclusion” ensures that a space will be designed that minimizes the violations of the Principle of Exclusion—that is, a space will be designed where objects have a place, a time, a trajectory of movement, etc."[Beckmann, John (ed.), and John Beckmann *Virtual Dimension: Architecture, Representation, and Crash Culture*. Princeton Architectural Press, 1998.]

08. "Space does not here permit discussion of another of the great villas of the late 1920s, the Villa Savoye at Poissy. While the columnar system of the Villa Savoye takes on architectural prominence, a sustained analysis would show, I argue, that the columnar system here too is subservient to the planar organization of the secondary structure. The columnar system becomes apparent; it is not, however, an overall coherent system and, where it is ordered, it reinforces the planar system. The Four Compositions After the design of the Villa Savoye, Le Corbusier made a diagram which reflected on the research program presented here."[Hays, K. Michael *Architecture Theory since 1968*. The MIT Press, 1998.]

09. "Architectural design seems to focus more on the three dimensions of built space than the temporal dimension that emerges as we start to use that space—which is probably due to the traditional design tools of architecture. AR: Absolutely. There is a dynamics of space, or of the space-time experience by the individual. And this dynamics escapes from the ordinary graphic representations of space such as plan, section, and elevation. But one needs to integrate time and movement as spatial parameters into the design of architecture."[Beckmann, John (ed.), and John Beckmann *Virtual Dimension: Architecture, Representation, and Crash Culture*. Princeton Architectural Press, 1998.]

10. "Overall, reflexivity is advantageous for increasing dynamism through modification of the system at run time, but it sacrifices the controllability of the system and increases its vulnerability. It is far from trivial to balance these advantages and disadvantages (Tanaka-Ishii 2010b; Chap. 11, 2010a). The contrast between structural and constructive systems suggests a fundamental understanding of the difficulty of computing design by humans in terms of applying a structural system to use constructive systems."[(eds.), Peter Pericles Trifonas *International Handbook of Semiotics*. Springer Netherlands, 2015.]

11. "Subsequent mathematical developments on non-Euclidean spaces and their topologies did not eliminate the philosophical discussions. These reappeared with the widening gap between abstract spaces and society. But space was generally accepted as a cosa mentale, a sort of all-embracing set with subsets such as literary space, ideological space, and psychoanalytical space. 4. Architecturally, to define space (to make space distinct) literally meant “to determine boundaries. ” Space had rarely been discussed by architects before the beginning of the twentieth century."[Hays, K. Michael *Architecture Theory since 1968*. The MIT Press, 1998.]

12. "Indeed, a common assumption in contemporary architecture is that perception and understanding of three-dimensional space can only be achieved through motion, either of the eye or of the body in space. In other words, space is indissolubly linked to motion: by moving 22 Architectus Verborum in space, we understand and create space. At the same time, we may imagine motion even if we do not actually move. For instance, description of spatial entities such as roads, which allow actual, physical movement along them, often consists of statements such as "The road climbs up the mountain. ""[Caballero, Rosario *Re-Viewing Space: Figurative Language in Architects’ Assessment of Built Space*. Mouton de Gruyter, 2006.]

13. "One floor warps a bit of itself into another, producing a characteristic ‘floor/door/window’ and a sloping ‘floor/ramp’, the latter idea developed by Koolhaas. A challenge for architects today is to see if this idea can work better than it does at Frank Lloyd Wright’s Guggenheim Museum. As the model and sections indicate, this ferry terminal is a very abstract system, a landscape of otherness, a surprising flatscape without the usual orientation points; it does not look like a building at all. The generic nature of the scheme, the architects claim, is well-suited to our stage of globalised late-capitalism and, like Mies van der Rohe, they turn a universal system into a kind of transcendental space: a sacred space without a religion."[Carpo, Mario *The digital turn in architecture 1990-2010*. Chichester: Wiley, 2012.]

14. "Can its special character still be uttered?The urgency of such questions demands from us a confession: So long as we do not experience the special character of space, talk about artistic space also remains obscure. The way that space reigns throughout the work of art hangs, meantime, in indeterminateness. The space, within which the sculptured structure can be met as an object present-athand; the space, which encloses the volume of the figure; the space, which subsists as the emptiness between volumes—are not these three spaces in the unity of their interplay always merely derivative of one physical-technological space, even if calculative measurement cannot be applied to artistic figures?"[Leach, Neil *Rethinking Architecture: A Reader in Cultural Theory*. Routledge, 1997.]

15. "Though technically operating within the same space, they navigate as if they 164 b ri an w. ch ane n were in a more smooth space. As Nunes says, referring again to the ideas of Deleuze and Guattari, “smooth space sets up a nomadic system of movement,” where “lines become vectors, rather than units of measurement” (64). This tension between striated and smooth space, between movement on a grid or network and nomadic wandering in a free space, is the inherent tension of digital space and the binary opposition—presented using the very same vocabulary—that runs throughout Against the Day."[Herzogenrath, Bernd *Travels in Intermediality: ReBlurring the Boundaries*. Dartmouth, 2012.]

16. "George Lakoff, writing later with Rafael Nunez, extended his language studies to suggest even that mathematics is entirely a metaphorical system. 25 All this serves to confirm the primacy of embodied experience, of the body in space. The body engages the world The conquest of the sky is recent in human history. On a Stone Age world initially perceived as flat, the above was seen as another world, from which came uncontrollable forces of light, heat and weather, and it is understandable that people conceived heavenly bodies as controlling agents and sought to address them in prayer."[Awan, Nishat, Peter Blundell-Jones, and Mark Meagher *Architecture and movement : the dynamic experience of buildings and landscapes*. London and New York: Routledge, 2015.]

17. "Although the physical autonomous system, by initial design, will host specific systems in specific regions (e. g. , on certain dedicated hardware processors), the systems are not restricted to operating in their initially assigned regions (although certain processors may be more adept at certain types of processing than others). As with the human brain, when one area of the physical autonomous system is damaged, another area thereafter takes up the processing for the damaged area. This also illustrates that the physical structure of the autonomous system neither supplies nor constitutes the software of the systems it executes; that is the purview of its mind, the constellation of the autonomous system."[de Gyurky, Szabolcs Michael, and Mark A. Tarbell *The Autonomous System: A Foundational Synthesis of the Sciences of the Mind*. Wiley, 2013.]

18. "It switches from the local to the general scale of existence. The spatial organization of geography illustrates the world of experience within a spatially organized system. Furthermore, we also have to learn to know the totality of the objects of our experience, so that our knowledge does not form an aggregate but a system; because in a system the whole precedes the parts whereas, on the contrary, in an aggregate, it is the parts that precede the whole. 118 9781441115607_Ch03_Final_txt_print. indd 135 3/30/2012 1:21:51 PM 136 Deleuze and the Diagram The movement between aggregate and system, between the local and the universal, is a representation in thought of the organization of the system of nature."[Zdebik, Jakub *Deleuze and the Diagram: Aesthetic Threads in Visual Organization*. London: Continuum, 2012.]

19. "Situated in a simulated environment of external forces, the system’s behavioural tendencies then reveal its performative capacity. For example, exposing multiple system instances to digitally simulated light flow enables the registration of interrelations between parametric manipulations and the modulation of light levels upon and beyond the system. Additional digital structural analyses of the same instances reveal the related load-bearing behaviour of the system."[Carpo, Mario *The digital turn in architecture 1990-2010*. Chichester: Wiley, 2012.]

20. "I call this system of representation the “semiophysics [after Rene Thom] of graphical space,” thereby emphasizing the systematicity of an MST approach to modeling. It is important to remember, however, though I shall here focus on “representational” models, that even at the level of “perception,” the mind–brain–body–affordance system of a given organism is in fact a model, what Jacob von Uexküll calls an umwelt, of a given species’ ecological niche (2010 [1934/1940])."[(eds.), Peter Pericles Trifonas *International Handbook of Semiotics*. Springer Netherlands, 2015.]

21. "This image in fact looks like an architectural iconic abstraction of the city (at a certain time). Conclusion We use the term Mixed Reality for different scenarios of body, space and time. In Murmuring Fields digital information is positioned on stage. Body and spatial sound environment are linked. Space is extended in virtual space. In Energy_ Passages media reality like the newspaper creates an interactive and time-based public space. The collective mind of the daily newspaper is displayed in public space for digital and subjective transformation."[Betsky, Aaron, Ole Bouman, David Deutsch, Elizabeth Diller Ricardo Scofidio, Monika Fleischmann Wolfgang Strauss, Sulan Kolatan William Mac Donald, and William J. Mitchell et al. *Disappearing Architecture: From Real to Virtual to Quantum*. Birkhäuser Architecture, 2001.]

22. "The main differences, as pointed out by Wegner, are: ▪ Interactive systems interact with an external environment they cannot control—that is, the output of the interactive system may modify, but not determine the external world (modify means a transformation not foreseen by the interactive system). 132 Chapter 6 ▪ Parallelism or concurrency occurs when computations of the system over- lap in time. ▪ Distribution occurs when components of a system are separated geograph- ically or logically. Both parallelism and distribution can be expressed by algorithms in the absence of interaction."[Imaz, Manuel, and David Benyon *Designing with Blends: Conceptual Foundations of Human-Computer Interaction and Software Engineering*. The MIT Press, 2007.]

23. "Architectural space existed to be used, made personal, its boundaries transgressed, reordered, and redeployed. Linking all three figures is the idea of corporeal embodiment and the notion that architecture is about movement, specifically the movement of the body through space, which creates the effect of time. The notion of architectural procession is key, but it cannot exist without a preexisting body. Thinking of architecture as existing in time, not space, places particular attention on the body and its movement through space and experience of it."[Waldrep, Shelton *The Dissolution of Place: Architecture, Identity, and the Body*. Ashgate Pub Co, 2013.]

24. "In a similar way, his sequential sections convey simultaneity and possibility as they depict individual spaces, but also their collective impact over space and time. There is an oscillation, an individual pause in space and time, and the accumulated awareness of all the different kinds of space moved through, that gives measure to the memory of one’s passage through space or territory. Miralles thus gives a thickness or depth to the conventional section that demonstrates his conceptual position toward the walker, the building and the site—to space, time and movement."[Awan, Nishat, Peter Blundell-Jones, and Mark Meagher *Architecture and movement : the dynamic experience of buildings and landscapes*. London and New York: Routledge, 2015.]

25. "Navigation is not just about the movement through a space, it is about the architecture, visual appearance, and usability of that space. On the other hand, the scope of Winograd’s deﬁnition is wide open (as one of the discussants on ChiPlace pointed out). A space can mean anything from a bus stop to a shopping mall to cyberspace. In trying to illustrate the similarity between real-world navigation and navigation in information space, Benyon described how unstable some physical spaces can be."[Imaz, Manuel, and David Benyon *Designing with Blends: Conceptual Foundations of Human-Computer Interaction and Software Engineering*. The MIT Press, 2007.]