Created: 2025-11-08 14:43:46
Origin: suggested
Selected: The changing, aleatory quality of these emerging phenomena and the fractal nature of this structure—in which there is no universal metanetwork, and each subnetwork subdivides inﬁnitely into still smaller ones—combine to ensure that no division will ever be permanent or absolute. Information itself emerges only in the interval between too much and too little change. So, following Taylor, the meaning of the texts in this volume should emerge less from the groupings imposed by the editors (or the metalanguage of this Introduction) than from the spontaneous interaction between the various pieces.[Lunning, Frenchy *Limits of the Human*. University of Minnesota Press, 2013.]

--- Context List ---
01. "The changing, aleatory quality of these emerging phenomena and the fractal nature of this structure—in which there is no universal metanetwork, and each subnetwork subdivides inﬁnitely into still smaller ones—combine to ensure that no division will ever be permanent or absolute. Information itself emerges only in the interval between too much and too little change. So, following Taylor, the meaning of the texts in this volume should emerge less from the groupings imposed by the editors (or the metalanguage of this Introduction) than from the spontaneous interaction between the various pieces."[Lunning, Frenchy *Limits of the Human*. University of Minnesota Press, 2013.]

02. "The transmuted identity of knowledge and information can be contested, however. A hesitation about their relation allows for the otherwise intimate knot between these terms to be loosened. With that, some leverage can be had on the question of whether knowledge is in fact, operation, or concept instrumentally displaced by information, or even how the relation and movement from one to the other – if there is such a movement – is to be understood. To be clearer about this, a more precise characterization of information is needed."[Fraser, Mariam, Sarah Kember, and Celia Lury *Inventive Life: Approaches to the New Vitalism*. SAGE Publications Ltd, 2006.]

03. "The example is narrowed to ontology-based information integration. The results of this research will not be a panacea that solves the reconciliation problem described by the database community as one of the obstacles on the road toward solving the heterogeneity of information problem [13]. Preliminary results indicate that further effort should be spent on another step of semantic interoperability, which is the reconciliation of two or more sources of information."[Smith, Ian F.C. *Intelligent Computing in Engineering and Architecture: 13th EG-ICE Workshop 2006, Ascona, Switzerland, June 25-30, 2006, Revised Selected Papers*. Springer, 2006.]

04. "Their brief sketch-review will be instructive in bringing the characteristics of the informatic dimension and operation of meaning more clearly into view. First, Lash’s ‘critique of information’ highlights the duality of meaning in focus here. Lash argues that there are two types of information in the information society. The first is the production of discursive or analytic knowledge which replaces labour production (2002: 141–4)."[Fraser, Mariam, Sarah Kember, and Celia Lury *Inventive Life: Approaches to the New Vitalism*. SAGE Publications Ltd, 2006.]

05. "Given an understanding of our environment as a surrounding interaction landscape which we can move through, interact with others in, and get access to information-, and interaction services and computational power at anytime, anywhere we can also start to portrait digital services that live on top of this computerized environment. One such environment will enable us to interact with each other while moving from being co-located to geographically dispersed, across different interaction channels, and indirectly via the physical environment."[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

06. "The important insight is put forward here that, with respect  to the function of information conveyance, extrinsic and intrinsic encodings are in  principle functionally equivalent, so that it is the cyberspace-designer’s choice which  aspect or information to encode via extrinsic variables, i. e. (absolute or relative) loca-  tion/position, and which via intrinsic variables, i. e. shape, colour, materiality etc."[INPUT: Morel_Bier__Disruptive_Technologies_The_Convergence_of_New_Paradigms_in_Architecture.pdf]

07. "In quite similar ways as information ecologies in the context of an evolving information society has been described as a term that marks a connection between ecological ideas with the dynamics and properties of the increasingly dense, complex and important digital informational environment under the metaphor of an ecosystem, then interaction ecologies could be understood as a term that marks a connection between ecological ideas with the properties and character of interacCopyright © 2011, IGI Global."[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

08. "Next, a brief analysis of the problems encountered in exchanging, sharing, transferring, and integrating information will be presented. The analysis is narrowed to the reconciliation of two sources of information. The subsequent section illustrates some approaches to model the information in the construction industry. The last section discusses the onto-semantic framework approach and its relation to the semantic web. 2 Reconciliation Problem Our research recognizes multiple sources for the problem of creating the effective exchanging, sharing, transferring, and integrating of information."[Smith, Ian F.C. *Intelligent Computing in Engineering and Architecture: 13th EG-ICE Workshop 2006, Ascona, Switzerland, June 25-30, 2006, Revised Selected Papers*. Springer, 2006.]

09. "Roughly, the sources of the problem are the different methods used to represent information [6], different levels of specification of the concepts in the domain, and the various levels of systematization or sophistication of the construction participants’ systems. The effective exchanging, sharing, transferring, and integrating of information is embraced within the semantic interoperability paradigm. Semantic interoperability can be defined as the understanding of the information concept representations by domain’s agents."[Smith, Ian F.C. *Intelligent Computing in Engineering and Architecture: 13th EG-ICE Workshop 2006, Ascona, Switzerland, June 25-30, 2006, Revised Selected Papers*. Springer, 2006.]

10. "What is proposed is a more comprehensive account of the conditions for both models that recognizes the condition of an organization of (here, organic) memory – and therefore (organic) meaning – for there to actually be information at all. Information is meaningful in the system. Or, meaning is dual: it is mnemic and informatic. Critique of the Statistical-Quantitative Determination of Information Having established the two dimensions of how meaning occurs in a system or organization, we can come back to the question of the relation between knowledge and information."[Fraser, Mariam, Sarah Kember, and Celia Lury *Inventive Life: Approaches to the New Vitalism*. SAGE Publications Ltd, 2006.]

11. "And from my perspective I like to think about the enabling character of these new textures as a wholeness in terms of an interaction grid. This interaction grid might be physically manifested in physical objects but a huge part of this grid is about digital materials including e. g. online resources, storage, processing power, information flows (including the whole range of solutions from e. g. secure data transactions to open RSS-streams), communication sessions, functions, algorithms, and various representation techniques."[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

12. "Action spaces are areas where stakeholders can construct designs and interact with the simulations; reflection spaces are those areas where argumentation, visualizations, and other information displays are presented to support the action space activities; and the first two are in turn supported by information spaces, such as GIS databases, Google Earth data, and live GPS data. While we distinguish between the reflection and action spaces, the line between the two is somewhat arbitrary: there can certainly be reflection activities that go on within the action spaces as well as design actions that can take place in reflection spaces."[Arias, Ernesto G., Hal Eden, and Gerhard Fischer *Envisionment and Discovery Collaboratory*. Morgan & Claypool Publishers, 2015.]

13. "Galloway’s example here is the visualization of the internet itself, of which there are many examples, all of which look pretty much the same. “Data have no necessary information” (83). But the information that is applied to it seems over and over to be the same, a sort of hub-and-spoke cloud aesthetic, which draws connections but leaves out protocols, labor or power. Maybe one form of what Dean calls the decline in symbolic efficiency is a parallel increase in aesthetic information that goes hand in hand with a decline in information aesthetics."[Wark, Mckenzie *General Intellects - Twenty-One Thinkers for the Twenty First Century*. Verso Books, 2017.]

14. "The KMan system aims to: x Capture, manage and index for easy retrieval information already available. This functionality of the tool falls in what is widely accepted as information management but the author argues that effective information management and, hence, retrieval can be the basis for knowledge creation and design activities support."[Van Leeuwen, Jos P., and Harry J.P. Timmermans *Innovations in Design & Decision Support Systems in Architecture and Urban Planning*. Springer, 2006.]

15. "163–78. Leibniz, G. W. 1666. Dissertatio de art combinatoria. Leibniz, G. W. 1667. Nova Methodus Discendae Docendaeque Iurisprudentiae. Lipetz, B. -A. 1966. Information Storage and Data Retrieval. In Information: A Comprehensive Review of the Extraordinary New Technology of Information. San Francisco: W. H. Freeman and Company, pp. 175–92. Llull, R. 1512. Liber de ascensus et descensu intellectus, Ed. of Valencia. Longo, G. 2009. Critique of Computational Reason in the Natural Sciences. In Fundamental Concepts in Computer Science, edited by E. Gelenbe and J. -P. Kahane."[Bottazzi, Roberto *Digital Architecture Beyond Computers: Fragments of a Cultural History of Computational Design*. Hardcover. Bloomsbury Visual Arts, 2018.]