Created: 2025-12-26 18:55:49
Origin: suggested
Selected: I move and speak, but I am also reading from a text, not because I prefer it that way but because my memory prevents me from making all the points that I would wish to make, as well as for other reasons. I would prefer to enter into a discourse with you in the oral mode, and your responses would help trigger in me the development of my theme; there will, of course, be time for t h s later.[Cook, Terry *Imagining Archives: Essays and Reflections*. Scarecrow Press, 2003.]

--- Context List ---
01. "I wanted it to be real. I wanted that link with my mother and it would have comforted me through the grieving. How often must this happen and the critically ill person die?Statistically, there must be many times when this clairvoyance becomes reality in the family folklore. I really don’t want to destroy other people’s beliefs, nor the comfort they gain from them."[Kelly, Lynne *The Skeptic's Guide to the Paranormal*. Allen & Unwin, 2004.]

02. "That’s what we need now: a human-powered current. It took me a while, but well into my forties, I’ve finally jumped into my own life with the spirit of my father and great-grandfather. It was hard to give up the old dreams of a pastoral country life, but the countless benefits of fixing what we have and staying put were inescapable. I would have loved to talk through that dilemma with Dad and Great-Grandpa, but ultimately I think they would have reached the same inevitable conclusion."[Wilson, Jeff *The Greened House Effect: Renovating Your Home with a Deep Energy Retrofit*. 2nd ed. Chelsea Green Publishing, 2013.]

03. "In respect of Benjamin’s reading of the historical past in the layers of the city, time is not simply past time unearthed in the present, but also time past, the time that renders direct access to past time impossible through time’s own transformative work. Yet this transformative work allows for the illuminative and redemptive potential of the past’s fragments."[Rice, Charles *Emergence of the Interior:  Architecture, Modernity, Domesticity*. annotated edition. Routledge, 2006.]

04. "The book is written, chapter one to the end, in regular progress through the years. Even if you go in for sleights of hand like flashbacks or Tristram Shandy, there is no way of conveying in words the difference between child time and grown-up time, and the different pace of time in the different stages of an adult’s life. A year before you are thirty is a very different year from the sixty-year-old’s year. When scientists try to get us to understand the real importance of the human race, they say something like, “if the story of the earth is twenty-four hours long, then humanity’s part in it occupies the last minute of that day. ” Similarly, in the story of a life, if it is being told true to time as actually experienced, then I’d say seventy per cent of the book would take you to age ten."[O’Brien, Dan (ed.) *Gardening: Philosophy for Everyone- Cultivating Wisdom*. Hoboken: Wiley-Blackwell, 2011.]

05. "Such attunement leads to engagement. One steps inside the shed and becomes engaged in activity – potting on, cleaning one’s tools, organizing one’s seed trays. One can become lost in such activity, unaware of the passage of time, and even of oneself. The psychologist Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi talks of a state of flow in which one loses oneself in this way – the kind of state experienced by the athlete, the knitter, and the dancer. 36 Before one knows it the sun is setting and one must pack away one’s tools."[O’Brien, Dan (ed.) *Gardening: Philosophy for Everyone- Cultivating Wisdom*. Hoboken: Wiley-Blackwell, 2011.]

06. "The day I wrote this piece I read a quote from Steve Jobs, which explained how, every morning, he asked himself, ‘If today were the last day of my life, would I want to do what I am about to do today?’. If the answer was ‘No’ for too many days in a row, he knew he needed to effect change. And it struck me that both Clémence and Didier could square up to their bathroom mirror and answer an unequivocal ‘Yes’ every day."[McCartney, Karen *The Alchemy of Things: Interiors Shaped by Curious Minds*. Allen & Unwin, 2018.]

07. "Each reference reflected something of the giver’s outlook or experience: my diplomat brother would come across bees in flags and local customs; a friend’s mother revealed how many years ago she had rushed up to a remote corner of her family home, where the insects had nested, and “told the bees” of her recent engagement. The story moved me; she had shared such a special time of happiness and expectation by performing this archaic custom, and it showed me, once again, just how close and important bees have been to humans, even within living memory."[Ellis, Hattie *Sweetness and Light: The Mysterious History of the Honeybee*. Crown Publishing Group, 2010.]

08. "I move and speak, but I am also reading from a text, not because I prefer it that way but because my memory prevents me from making all the points that I would wish to make, as well as for other reasons. I would prefer to enter into a discourse with you in the oral mode, and your responses would help trigger in me the development of my theme; there will, of course, be time for t h s later."[Cook, Terry *Imagining Archives: Essays and Reflections*. Scarecrow Press, 2003.]

09. "Here’s what I do remember: on the understanding they paid it back, bank interest Being bathed every night by my mother, towelled dry included, within a stipulated time. After moving in, there and helped into my pyjamas. Of snuggling up in coarse was only a few bob over to last until my father’s next payday. cotton sheets still smelling of the sun. Of being read Our new home was a tiny fibro box on a generous block."[*Australian House & Garden* 2017.]

10. "During her time in Athens, Duncan climbed the Acropolis often, summoning the power of the architecture to stir something within herself. Her descriptions of awaiting inspiration are affecting and natural: For many days no movement came to me. And then one day came the thought: these columns which seem so straight and still are not really straight, each one is curving gently from the base to the height, each one is in flowing movement, never resting, and the movement of each is in harmony with the others."[Connelly, Joan Breton *The Parthenon Enigma*. Knopf, 2014.]

11. "Lester was their third son who slipped on the ice and broke his hip the day before Christmas in 1966; a few months later he could not walk at all. A bone in his leg deteriorated at the same time that his mind began to crumble. "I guess that was the first time I'd stayed away from home in a long, long time," said Chester. His remark was like an echo from the distant past, for we all knew that Ruth had twice run away from their stormy marriage, leaving some of her children behind in her haste and hiding from Chester for six months the second time."[Jones, Michael Owen *Craftsman of the Cumberlands: Tradition and Creativity*. University Press of Kentucky, 2003.]

12. "What do the "pillars" of The Four Pillars of Destiny mean?Well, each pillar is actually a time component. One pillar represents the year, one the month, one the day, and one the hour. Each time component describes the five-phase element structure present at the moment of your birth (when you took your first, Master Class -, qi-inspired breath). The relationship and position of each phase helps to determine your probable life path."[Moran, Elizabeth, Master Joseph Yu, and Val Biktashev *The Complete Idiot's Guide to Feng Shui, Third Edition*. 3rd ed. New York: ALPHA, 2005.]

13. "In fact, time and space are like two sides of a coin. One cannot exist without the other. For example, your body (your own personal space) changes over time. Everyone and everything moves through ceaseless cycles of birth, growth, decay, and death. The time your home was born and the time you were born are important considerations in a Flying Star analysis."[Moran, Elizabeth, Master Joseph Yu, and Val Biktashev *The Complete Idiot's Guide to Feng Shui, Third Edition*. 3rd ed. New York: ALPHA, 2005.]

14. "After this period the shadow would go on day by day, gradually decreasing, and then again would as gradually increase, correspondingly with certain lines of brass that were inserted in the stone. If this description is accurate, then the whole functioned not only as a clock, telling the time of day, but as a calendar, telling the time of the year."[Gordon, John Steele, and George Washington *Washington's monument : and the fascinating history of the obelisk*. Washington (D.C.): Bloomsbury Publishing;Bloomsbury USA, 2016.]

15. "Our fathers would come out with us to the parades, and they would be the security. It was a nice way for our fathers to show their presence, their love for us. And it was something I did for a long time. I left New Orleans for two decades after college, but I came back with clear eyes for looking at different aspects of New Orleans culture. As a scholar, my area is women’s studies."[O'Neill, Rosary *New Orleans Carnival Krewes: The History, Spirit and Secrets of Mardi Gras*. The History Press, 2014.]

16. ""This one is a strang [chair], " he repeated to her. "I Reley dinton in tin to Make hit this tipe Sem to Be somtin new about Ever day has got to Be Adied Hit is so hevey now that I can't hardly lift hit. "All of Chester's big rockers are heavy. There was no description of the chair, only the same reference to an unsettling feeling in Chester: "This Rocker is Reley strang Neve sen iney thing like hit in my hole life hit Reley looks like my Master Pece of furniture. ""[Jones, Michael Owen *Craftsman of the Cumberlands: Tradition and Creativity*. University Press of Kentucky, 2003.]

17. "In fact, Saikaku somewhat humorously suggests that even in his day many people had already shifted memorial services to the summer to avoid interference with New Year's festivities. One wonders what he would have to say about those modern young people who give up family get-togethers in favor of skiing trips. Japanese New Year's is sometimes likened to Christmas in the West."[Sosnoski, Daniel *Introduction to Japanese Culture*. Tuttle Publishing, 2013.]

18. "Like most people in the world, I was at a loss what to do or say about the disaster. With my less than two years of Japanese-language study at that point, even if I’d known what to say, it would have come out awkwardly and probably grammatically incorrect. It felt strange conducting research on new Buddhist museums, parks, and monuments, especially at that time and place."[McDaniel, Justin Thomas, and Mark Michael Rowe *Architects of Buddhist Leisure: Socially Disengaged Buddhism in Asia’s Museums, Monuments, and Amusement Parks*. University of Hawaii Press, 2016.]

19. "Nobody ever did any calculations to figure out whether or not the particular connection that held the skywalks up would work. It got built without anybody ever figuring out if it would be strong enough. It just slipped through the cracks. "16 The Politics of Destruction To every thing there is a season, and a time to every purpose under the heaven. Ecclesiastes 3:1 We build structures with the faith that they will last forever."[Levy, Matthys, Mario Salvadori, and Kevin Woest *Why Buildings Fall Down: How Structures Fail*. W.W. Norton, 1994.]

20. "I go often there with messages, etc. And the Queen and Prince go two or three times a day; so it goes on briskly. The Prince has certainly put a great spirit into the painters. All those cartoons at Westminster Hall would never have been done but for him. (quoted in Trollope 23–4)8 Skerrett’s testimony helps recover the intensity and intimacy of the experience, offering an almost claustrophobic sense of the notable ﬁgures and activities compressed into those rooms, available only to us as the records Victoria would cause to be enshrined in the Decorations book and Albert would assist in translating to the new Houses of Parliament."[Fyfe, Paul, Antony Harrison, David B. Hill, Sharon L. Joffe, and Sharon M. Setzer (auth.) *Victoria's Lost Pavilion: From Nineteenth-Century Aesthetics to Digital Humanities*. Palgrave Macmillan US, 2017.]

21. "It’s funny how age allows us to see things so much more clearly, as our eyesight gets worse!I see the changes in myself as I plod into my midlife years, and this has been something of an awakening experience. The days seem to go increasingly faster with every year that passes. With a new awareness and appreciation of time, I choose to grab hold of every day!"[Carroll, Shari *Layers: Inspired Collage for Paper Projects with Meaning*. 2006.]

22. "Railway companies were unable to enforce punctual arrival and departure times because people’s measure of time diﬀered from town to town. Consequently, in 1883, the railroad business unilaterally—without seeking federal legislation—divided the nation into four time zones, thereby unifying the nation’s perception of time, space, and place. 49 Time-consciousness pervaded all aspects of the railroad circus."[Davis, Janet M. *The Circus Age: Culture and Society under the American Big Top*. The University of North Carolina Press, 2002.]

23. "She loved people and always had a great time. Mom and I had a lot of fun doing it together. There are a lot of parties and a lot of shopping. And the moms get invited to everything. So every time there was a luncheon, Mom and I would go to lunch together. And the parents really do a lot of the partying, too. A lot of people who debuted with me had gone to Newman, Sacred Heart, Country Day and St. Martins."[O'Neill, Rosary *New Orleans Carnival Krewes: The History, Spirit and Secrets of Mardi Gras*. The History Press, 2014.]

24. "Keeping your eye on the DER ball through a long process can be trying, but as a DER survivor and beneficiary, I can tell you that the results are worth it. Take your time, make a lot of lists, and break the big chunks of work down into manageable goals. After that, the trick is to just stay at it. An old Chinese proverb puts it well: “To get through the hardest journey we need take only one step at a time, but we must keep on stepping. ” Home: it’s one powerful word."[Wilson, Jeff *The Greened House Effect: Renovating Your Home with a Deep Energy Retrofit*. 2nd ed. Chelsea Green Publishing, 2013.]

25. "Many Tyrian soldiers found it an ideal time to abandon ship. Those who stayed were greeted by a second round of projectiles—hornet nests. One cannot pin the turning of the battle, war, or history solely on a squadron of catapulted vipers and insects. But one could surmise that it went a great distance in weakening the Tyrians’ resolve, not knowing what might land next."[Carlsen, Spike *A Splintered History of Wood: Belt Sander Races, Blind Woodworkers, and Baseball Bats*. 2008.]