Created: 2025-12-12 20:36:37
Origin: searched
Selected: It is not used solely to build an argument or rationalize form but to disturb our process of design and expose unique social, environmental, and cultural issues embedded in the initial constraints of each project. As a design evolves, we renegotiate its conceptual framework through a process that is inherently fluid, adaptive, and self-critical. We use research to undermine many assumptions about architecture as a discipline, such as the fixity of building type, the hierarchy of facade and entry, the rigid nature of program, and the universal and global character that modern architecture has put into place.[James, Vincent, and Jennifer Yoos *VJAA: Vincent James Associates Architects*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2006.]

--- Context List ---
01. "It is not used solely to build an argument or rationalize form but to disturb our process of design and expose unique social, environmental, and cultural issues embedded in the initial constraints of each project. As a design evolves, we renegotiate its conceptual framework through a process that is inherently fluid, adaptive, and self-critical. We use research to undermine many assumptions about architecture as a discipline, such as the fixity of building type, the hierarchy of facade and entry, the rigid nature of program, and the universal and global character that modern architecture has put into place."[James, Vincent, and Jennifer Yoos *VJAA: Vincent James Associates Architects*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2006.]

02. "It is within differentiable space that a discrete language of movement can be generated, across a number of disciplinary domains. For instance, cubic units are found in the language of digital imaging in the shape of the pixel—the smallest addressable element of a picture, or the voxel (volumetric pixel) used in 3D imaging. The sphere and box models illustrate two different ways of applying an abstract object to the design of an embodied architecture of movement."[Sutil, Nicolás Salazar *Motion and Representation: The Language of Human Movement*. The MIT Press, 2015.]

03. "Hildebrandt goes further to highlight a profound conceptually based rift between interior design and interior architecture: [I]nterior design is grounded in the condition of additive assemblies and separate contracted services. While the design processes of architecture and interior design share the same procedural sequence and a core discipline vocabulary, interior design, both as a discipline and in its product, is (or can be) free of the weight of the architecture. Additive assemblies within the “interior” may establish an independent language. . . intentionally, conceptually, and contractually removed from the building shell. 26 Whether in an educational or professional context, interior design’s association with architecture necessitates an imperative for students and practitioners to become familiar with a wide scope of building technologies, including materials and systems, structures, physics, health and safety issues, mathematics, and sustainable practices."[Kleinman, Kent, Joanna Merwood-Salisbury, and Lois Weinthal *After Taste: Expanded Practice in Interior Design*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2011.]

04. "No architecture, however complex its composition, can in itself explain-exhaust the problem of art. No art can derive from or be explained on the basis of the architectonic-constructivehandicraft operari. But neither can the language of art claim to be "extraterritorial";1 we are able to try to utter it because its place is not utopian. It is a place of language, a place of the crisis of language-a place that emphasizes above all the tensions, the On Loos's Tomb 195 revolutionary power, the imaginative capacity, of language."[Cacciari, Massimo, Stephen Sartarelli (transl.), and Patrizia Lombardo (introduction) *Architecture and Nihilism: On the Philosophy of Modern Architecture*. Yale University Press, 1995.]

05. "The pleasure of architecture is granted when architecture fulfils one’s spatial expectations, as well  as embodying architectural ideas or concepts, with  intelligence and invention There is also a special  pleasure to be mentioned: the pleasure that results  from conflicts, when the sensual pleasure of space  conflicts with the pleasure of order. The architecture of pleasure lies where conceptual  and spatial paradoxes merge in the middle of  delight, where architectural language breaks into a  thousand pieces, where the elements of architecture are dismantled and its rules transgressed.  Typologies,  morphologies,  spatial  compressions,  logical constructions - all dissolve. Representa-  i7  tion then equals abstraction, as they collide in a ™  staged and necessary conflict: repetition, discontinuity, cliches and neologisms. "[INPUT: Tschumi - 1994 - The Manhattan transcripts.pdf]

06. ": : : , , : : 164 : A A THE AESTHETICS OF ARCHITECTURE Muschenheim, W. : The 'Elements of the Art of Architecture (Thomas Hudson 1956). Patrick, M. and Tree, M. Pevsner, N. : Career in Architecture (Museum & Press 1961). of 'England Series (Penguin 195 1, etc. ). Outline of European Architecture (Penguin 7th ed. 1963). Pevsner, N. Richardson, A. E. and Corfiato, H. O. The Art of Architecture (E. U. P. 'Buildings : An : : 1938). ^ History of Architecture (Batsford 1950)."[West, T. W *A history of architecture in England*. 2nd ed. David McKay Company,Inc., 1966.]

07. "In Le Corbusier’s early residential work these machine-like qualities are thematic, and through their respatialization in an architectural design concretize the modernist project, the dichotomization of culture and nature, which entails the Fig. 8. 1 The role of metaphor in Louis Kahn’s design for the Phillips Exeter Library, 1969 Metaphor, Environmental Receptivity, and Architectural Design 191 denial of their functional entanglement, of what Bruno Latour terms “nature/culture” hybrids. For the moderns, the house becomes conceptualized as an atemporal product, appearing to have been generated by a set of internalized operations."[(auth.), Gary Backhaus, Gary Backhaus, and John Murungi (eds.) *Symbolic Landscapes*. Springer Netherlands, 2009.]

08. "p. cm. — (Writing architecture) Includes bibliographical references and index. ISBN 0-262-57149-8 (pbk. : alk. paper) 1. Architecture—Philosophy. 2. Space (Architecture)—Philosophy. I. Title. II. Series. NA2500 . G76 2001 720´. 1—dc21 2001018300 Acknowledgments vii Foreword by Peter Eisenman xi Introduction xv Part One Embodied Spaces one Embodying Space: An Interview two Lived Spatiality (The Spaces of Corporeal Desire) 31 Futures, Cities, Architecture 49 four Architecture from the Outside 57 ﬁve Cyberspace, Virtuality, and the Real: Some three 3 Part Two Transitional Spaces Architectural Reflections six 75 In-Between: The Natural in Architecture and Culture 91 Part Three Future Spaces seven The Future of Space: Toward an Architecture of Invention 109 eight Embodied Utopias: The Time of Architecture 131 nine Architectures of Excess 151 The Thing 167 ten Notes 185 Bibliography 207 Index 215 I am an outsider to the ﬁeld of architecture."[Grosz, Elizabeth *Architecture from the Outside: Essays on Virtual and Real Space (Writing Architecture)*. 2001.]

09. "Even though the debates concerning electronic literature, the digital image, digital sound and music, digital film, video and animation, net art, early software art, immersive installations, gaming, AI, and artificial life have now departed from the announcements of revolutionarily new events, many of these lines of development are both in the museums and still alive and kicking. Both their offspring and the displacement in part by more and other recent kinds of media art projects such as mobile novels, social media applications and hacks, mixed reality gaming, surveillance art, urban media facades, relational and responsive architectures, and context-aware sites and environments demonstrate that questions concerning the media art event and the eventness of media art have not disappeared but have rather become even more difficult to answer."[Ulrik, Ekman, Bolter Jay David, and Díaz Lily (Eds). *Ubiquitous Computing, Complexity and Culture*. 2017.]

10. "One example of this is the kind of protogeometrical vision that can underlie both the seemingly different structures found in formal dance (e. g. , ballet or Forsythe technique) and mathematical geometry. Throughout this book I will consider two facets of a language machine: the abstract and the concrete. The concrete aspect of a language machine refers to the actual embodiment or materialization of a motor language through physicalized or mechanized movement performance. Thus, a concrete language of movement is performed closer to some kinetic hardware: a body or mechanical/computational device."[Sutil, Nicolás Salazar *Motion and Representation: The Language of Human Movement*. The MIT Press, 2015.]

11. "Cover design: Wiley Cover images courtesy of authors Library of Congress cataloging-in-publication data available upon request. CONTENTS Preface Introduction Recommended Reading Recommended Readings 1: Planning Methodology Defining Terms and Intent The Synthesis Gap The Design Program Criteria Matrix Prototypical Plan Sketches Completing the Criteria Matrix Relationship Diagrams A Final Note on Planning Methodology Recommended Reading Codes and Regulations 2: The First Planning Steps: Bubble Diagrams and Block Plans Bubble Diagramming Space Planning Exercises Block Planning Recommended Reading *Codes and Regulations 3: Small and Dimensionally Demanding Spaces Human Factors Barrier-Free Design Standards Travel and Egress Furniture Planning and Placement Recommended Reading 4: The Building Shell and Major Systems The Building Shell Plumbing Systems Heating, Ventilating, and Air-Conditioning Systems Recommended Reading *Codes and Regulations 5: Important Influencing Factors Building Codes Green Building Rating Systems Lighting Design Acoustical Planning Planning Rules of Thumb Flexibility/Multiuse Furniture Spatial Quality Interior Design Specialties Recommended Reading 6: Developing a Rough Floor Plan Getting Started Construction Reality Start with Plumbing Major Spaces Next Circulation Spaces Basic Room Allocations Furniture and Equipment Storage and Filing Spatial Quality Sustainability Objectives Review Revisions Recommended Reading *Codes and Regulations 7: Refining the Solution Refining the Rough Plan The Preliminary Floor Plan Drawing Quality and Techniques Recommended Reading 8: Developing Skills beyond the Basic Level Basic Implications Programs within Programs Open Plan/Systems Furniture The Speculative Office Building Future Expansion Planning New Buildings A Final Note 9: Stair Design Basics Codes, Dimensions, and Configurations Stair Design Case Studies—Phase I Stair Design Case Studies—Phase II Recommended Reading Appendix A: Stair Terminology Appendix B: Design Programs and Building Shells Design Program 1A Design Program 1B Design Program 1C Design Program 2A Design Program 2B Design Program 2C Design Program 2S Design Program 3A Design Program 3B Design Program 3C BUILDING SHELLS Building Description 1A Building Description 1B Building Description 1C Building Description 2A Buiding Description 2B Building Description 2C Building Description 2S Building Description 3A Building Description 3B Building Description 3C Index Eula List of Tables Chapter 5 Table 5. 1 Chapter 9 Table 9−1a Table 9−1b Table 9−1c Table 9−1d List of Illustrations Chapter 1 Illus."[Karlen, Mark, and Rob Fleming *Space Planning Basics, 4th Edition*. 4th ed. Wiley, 2016.]

12. "What matters here is not the fact that Lewin drew on mathematical topology for a language and a means of representing psychological movement. More importantly, he did not use a static representation of purely external space (using the language of solids), not least because he saw movement as a dynamic and evolving relationship between a changing individual and its changing environment. Thus, he could conceptualize movement in terms of two temporalities—that of the individual evolving from childhood to old age, and that of an environment changing according to social and cultural factors."[Sutil, Nicolás Salazar *Motion and Representation: The Language of Human Movement*. The MIT Press, 2015.]

13. "The quality of your planning efforts is expressed not in words but in a unique drawing language universally understood by designers, architects, engineers, contractors, and others who work in the world of building environments. It follows that you should know that language well. Consider working on the exercises presented here as an opportunity to develop both drawing skills and a repertoire of techniques."[Karlen, Mark, and Rob Fleming *Space Planning Basics, 4th Edition*. 4th ed. Wiley, 2016.]

14. "In Loos's argument art represents what in the Tractatus is the "mystical" : art is what remains after we throw away the stairs we have climbed during our analysis of the various forms of labor, their organization, their functions, and the Metropolis that defines their space. Art redeems this multiplicity when the craftsman or the architect could do the same: that is, for no reason. Not only does art not constitute a kind of ideal language capable of synthetically shaping the multiplicity of relations and languages, but its very "why" lies in demonstrating the radical otherness of its own signs, its own game."[Cacciari, Massimo, Stephen Sartarelli (transl.), and Patrizia Lombardo (introduction) *Architecture and Nihilism: On the Philosophy of Modern Architecture*. Yale University Press, 1995.]

15. "Data visualizations typically rely on symbolic languages found in charts, maps, or conceptual diagrams. Information graphics also frequently use abstractions of concrete objects, such as illustrations and assembly diagrams. In Charles Sanders Peirce’s semiology, those two modes of representation would be referred to as symbolic and iconic signs. Information representations that transcend the established language of the flat display are rare and not always successful. We argue that the challenges of communicating embodied and ambient information call for utilizing a third category of signs from Peirce’s semiology: the index—a sign that is linked to its object through a causal connection."[Ulrik, Ekman, Bolter Jay David, and Díaz Lily (Eds). *Ubiquitous Computing, Complexity and Culture*. 2017.]