Created: 2025-12-18 21:36:57
Origin: searched
Selected: For the purposes of this chapter, however, I shall use the term 'image' to refer to visual images alone.[(eds.), Victor Burgin *Thinking Photography*. Macmillan Education UK, 1982.]

--- Context List ---
01. "For the purposes of this chapter, however, I shall use the term 'image' to refer to visual images alone."[(eds.), Victor Burgin *Thinking Photography*. Macmillan Education UK, 1982.]

02. "This proposes the challenge of justifying that intuition and 100 Chapter 4 explaining the particular philosophical ideas at play."[Guardiano, Nicholas *Aesthetic Transcendentalism in Emerson, Peirce, and Nineteenth-Century American Landscape Painting*. Lexington Books, 2016.]

03. "These extrinsic constraints which will lead, according to this hypothesis, to a stiﬂing of creativity can be listed as ‘external evaluation, surveillance, contracted for reward, competition and restricted choice’ (ibid. ). These terms are used in very speciﬁc ways however. Evaluation in this context becomes a concern with outside 110 Issues for Media Practice approval, and if this process comes to dominate a writer’s thoughts, the work will suffer and at the extreme will shut down the necessary concentration required to complete the task."[(auth.), Phillip McIntyre *Creativity and Cultural Production: Issues for Media Practice*. Palgrave Macmillan UK, 2012.]

04. "In a sense, my entire chapter is an extended evaluation, and I have raised many questions I might apply to myself. What evaluative regime have I applied in writing this chapter?Where did this regime originate, and how did I come to inhabit it?Why was I granted the honor of writing the concluding chapter?What was my motivation for agreeing to undertake this responsibility?How will you, the reader, respond to this chapter, and how will that inﬂuence me (and others) in the future?As we study creative practices at famous companies, we may learn something about ourselves."[Moeran, Professor Brian, and Professor Bo T. Christensen *Exploring Creativity: Evaluative Practices in Innovation, Design, and the Arts*. Cambridge University Press, 2013.]

05. "67 Chapter 4 On the Invention of Photographic Meaning Allan Sekula I The meaning of a photograph, like that of any other entity, is inevitably subject to cultural definition. The task here is to define and engage critically something we might call the 'photographic discourse'. A discourse can be defined as an arena of information exchange, that is, as a system of relations between parties engaged in communicative activity. In a very important sense the notion of discourse is a notion of limits. That is, the overall discourse relation could be regarded as a limiting function, one that establishes a bounded arena of shared expectations as to meaning."[(eds.), Victor Burgin *Thinking Photography*. Macmillan Education UK, 1982.]

06. "It then proceeds to indicate how this idea was "idealized" in Husserl's later theory of evidence. The second chapter follows Husserl in his attempt to gain phenomenological access to the ultimate foundation of the sciences. Part z anticipates certain initial objections that might be made against the thesis that Husserl's phenomenology is consistent with a realistic construal of scientific theories."[Hardy, Lee *Nature’s Suite: Husserl’s Phenomenological Philosophy of the Physical Sciences*. Ohio University Press, 2013.]

07. "This book has attempted to do just that by writing its history as an institution and not just on isolated aspects of its work. This concluding chapter returns to the three great questions outlined in the introduction and shows how the findings presented in the rest of the book have helped to tackle them, before presenting some ideas for further research. WHAT CAN THE HISTORY OF KEW OBSERVATORY TELL US ABOUT HOW THE PHYSICAL SCIENCES WERE ORGANIZED IN THE VICTORIAN ERA?"[MacDonald, Lee T *Kew Observatory and the Evolution of Victorian Science, 1840–1910*. Hardcover. University of Pittsburgh Press, 2018.]

08. "Description here is a means to construct narrative possibilities, whereas in Church’s broadside, description actively seems to counter narrative. The broadside is a kind of post-structuralist text: “analogical” rather than “predictive,” discursive rather than referential, unconcerned with questions of functionality and futility. 29 The most wide-ranging and insistent use of metaphor as a means to create structure is exhibited not by Church’s critics, but by Church’s traveling companion, Louis Legrand Noble."[Raab, Jennifer *Frederic Church: The Art and Science of Detail*. Yale University Press, 2015.]

09. "32 2. Theoretical Framework As described in the first chapter, this thesis aims at specifying and providing appropriate units of analysis and models for thought, reflection and articulation in interaction design for sociable use. This chapter outlines concepts for reasoning about use and the composition and judgement of design alternatives, where use is perceived as mediation and as having multiple aspects. Design alternatives are presented from various perspectives disclosing different characters."[Arvola, Mattias *Shades of use: the dynamics of interaction design for sociable use*. 2012.]

10. "Kunckel was conscious of the limits of language to render workshop practice, and harked back to the concept of ‘Augenmaß,’ originally used by Dürer and closely associated with ‘judgment by eye’ as used in art theory, to express those limits. Translating recipes between two languages heightens the awareness of these limits. Questions on the relation between texts and practices become acute in the case of translations between languages of recipes and writings on technology. One wonders whether translation between languages, when confronted with locally specific names and terms, would be even possible without recourse to practice—that is, without trying out the recipe?"[(eds.), Matteo Valleriani *The Structures of Practical Knowledge*. Springer International Publishing, 2017.]

11. "11 Potebnja, Iz zapisok po russkoj grammatike, 1:19. 10 32 Potebnja's Psycholinguistic Theory of Literature words directs our thought differently," 1 2 Potebnja concluded, because each language contains its own particular world view or a unique perspective. 13 Considered psychologically rather than linguistically, the internal form of the word is the focus of the "sensory image," that which is usually experienced in sense perception. But inasmuch as such an image contains a series of attributes that are in need of unity, only one of these attributes will normally dominate and generate the sense of a unified object."[A., Fizer John. Alexander *Potebnja's Psycholinguistic Theory of Literature*. 2017.]

12. "To that end, this book contributes to ongoing debates on the theory of the image, in particular portraiture, and the not-yet-fully-explored notion of the intimate, as well as the implications for images that look back for our understanding of the subject-object relationship in art. More specifically, because it presents a chapter of the history of vision, this book is about fascination, in its double meaning as the fixation of the gaze on an image and the attraction of a gaze by an image. It is the “look” of both beholder and image that glues these two meanings together, creating a realm where vision and image join yet do not merge, and it is this vision of painting that this book explores."[Grootenboer, Hanneke *Treasuring the gaze : intimate vision in late eighteenth-century eye miniatures*. Europe: University Of Chicago Press, 2012.]

13. "This is far too extensive a series of enquiries for this chapter."[Macleod, Suzanne, Laura Hourston Hanks, and Jonathan Hale *Museum Making: Narratives, Architectures, Exhibitions*. Routledge, 2012.]

14. "Cubism 23. I want to conclude this study by constructing a number of critical questions concerning the material that has been discussed in this chapter. Sometimes these are critical in a merely formal way, the point being to illuminate, further, certain obscurities in Heidegger's thinking, but sometimes, too, they are raised with genuinely critical intent."[Young, Julian *Heidegger's Philosophy of Art*. Cambridge University Press, 2001.]

15. "Considering, however, that – as demonstrated in the beginning – a strict application 14 For a detailed discussion of this issue see Bernhart (1993)."[Wolf, Werner, Walter Bernhart, and Andreas Mahler *Immersion and Distance: Aesthetic Illusion in Literature and Other Media*. Rodopi, 2013.]