Created: 2025-12-30 18:51:18
Origin: suggested
Selected: As Peter Lunenfeld suggests, “As we move into the digital, the aesthetics of form become more and more involved in the aesthetics of mutable form. ”9 Morphing quickly became a popular graphical technique in digital image processing because of the seemingly magical way the computational remix of images provided the truth effect of a real photograph. Donna Haraway, writing about Morph 2. 0 by Gryphon Software, designed for the personal computer, suggests: “This technology has proved irresistible in the United States for 1990’s mass cultural, racialized kinship discourse on human unity and diversity. ”10 The truth effect of photography not only visually demonstrated but also mechanically mimicked the truth effect of race through an automated process of digital genesis.[Flanagan, Mary, and Austin Booth *Re:skin*. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press, 2006.]

--- Context List ---
01. "As Peter Lunenfeld suggests, “As we move into the digital, the aesthetics of form become more and more involved in the aesthetics of mutable form. ”9 Morphing quickly became a popular graphical technique in digital image processing because of the seemingly magical way the computational remix of images provided the truth effect of a real photograph. Donna Haraway, writing about Morph 2. 0 by Gryphon Software, designed for the personal computer, suggests: “This technology has proved irresistible in the United States for 1990’s mass cultural, racialized kinship discourse on human unity and diversity. ”10 The truth effect of photography not only visually demonstrated but also mechanically mimicked the truth effect of race through an automated process of digital genesis."[Flanagan, Mary, and Austin Booth *Re:skin*. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press, 2006.]

02. "In this Pygmalion fantasy, Haraway argues, the microchip and the computer program displace the human being as the origin of life. 12 Such creationist desires to reformulate the human body abound in digital photography, some celebratory and others explicitly critical. Aziz + Cucher’s Dystopia series of portraits in which human heads are devoid of any expressive feature or orifice represents a loss of personal identity that occurs as a result of new forms of digital communication. The artists write: “With the erasure of the primary facial features—eyes, nose mouth, etc."[Flanagan, Mary, and Austin Booth *Re:skin*. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press, 2006.]

03. "The discrepancy between the imagined object and its realistic representation must be taken into consideration and allowances be made for the peculiarities of human vision. The artist is not permitted to forget that in order to convey his thoughts he borrows shapes from objective nature, and that he makes his appeal to human perception, that is subjective nature. He will select of all possible subjects only those that are readily understood, and carve them in a way that is calculated to meet the requirements of the human power of perception."[Von Mach, Edmund, and Parkstone Press *Greek Sculpture its Spirit and its Principles*. Parkstone Press, 2006.]

04. "The research on remembering indicates that memories too are constructed like this, via the dynamic of consciousness. I also argued that there are constraints in the way human beings experience colour, possibly due to wavelength variation, and that this constrains the ways that colours are used symbolically. The data in the following sections reinforces this; blue is recessive and cool, red is attractive, dangerous, green is connected with coolness and moisture."[Young, Diane Jane Barbara *The Colours of Things: Memory, Materiality and an Anthropology of the Senses in North Western South Australia*. University College London, 2001.]

05. "As was the case in Kant’s Critique of Judgment, the beauty of the moko—and the form—becomes available when the pattern is removed from the Māori face. Sony’s 2003 ad campaign for digital cameras and computers uses Māori warriors in full facial and body tattoos to promise travelers the world; put another way, the ads suggest that technology is the new way to capture and preserve moko. Paco Rabanne ’s 1998 haute couture line and Jean-Paul Gaultier’s spring–summer 2000 line offer a knowing use of moko elements that conflates the exotic and the erotic. 14 In this way, the sacred mark may become part of a marketable brand, as Hau‘ofa indicates in his satire of globalization and other models of salvation, which rely upon the voracious desire to incorporate all."[Ellis, Juniper *Tattooing the World: Pacific Designs in Print and Skin*. Columbia University Press, 2008.]

06. "Prehistoric artefacts that depict physical deformities also raise questions about ferocity and use-value, moving ‘ugly’ connotations beyond surface visual readings towards more complex sensory-based engagements. As ‘uglies’ uncomfortably unite in the twenty-first century, arguments arise to disassociate from that label but also to appropriate it for empowering ends. Monstrous races illustrated in Hartmann Schedel, Anton Koberger, Michael Wohlgemuth and Wilhelm Pleydenwurff, Liber chronicarum (1493)."[Henderson, Gretchen E. *Ugliness: A Cultural History*. Reaktion Books, 2015.]

07. "While they could still be seen negatively as evidence of human difference (and/or alienation from God), they could also be valued positively as evidence of human sociality and human distinctiveness. The symbolic order is thus productive (in that it enables subjectivity, communication, culture) but also inevitably alienated, in that it cannot replace the idea of unmediated intimacy with reality, and in that it is hierarchically and violently classed (and, modern commentators might add, gendered and racial)."[Barcan, Ruth *Nudity: A Cultural Anatomy*. Berg Publishers, 2004.]

08. "The ballpoint pen, or Biro, named for its inventor, is of course anything but anonymous, but it was the result of a simple but powerful insight into how to deliver an even line of ink in the most economical and efficient way. By inviting us to examine objects that have become so familiar that they have disappeared from our conscious attention, we are being presented with a way to find what really drives design. It is an effective way to address the tension between the myth-making version of design and the reality of step-by-step refinements, between the cult of the individual genius and the way in which enterprises are driven by teams and groups."[Sudjic, Deyan *B is for Bauhaus, Y is for YouTube: Designing the Modern World from A to Z*. Rizzoli Ex Libris, 2015.]

09. "Hermes or Pan was probably one of the earliest comical and humorous transitions in representational treatment. It was a reference, not an action, but  enough to motivate the group. Perhaps an even more obvious way to make  this desired reference in the most sensual way possible was to use animal  hunts, human combat, or erotic wresting. Thus it became possible to connect  whole figure friezes around a center; and this method was soon exploited to Sphinx and Hermes the full. Finally this striving for artistic combinations developed into the first  pre-H om eric circle of myths that —being both Oriental and Greek —is still  largely incomprehensible or obscure, thanks to all its monstrous combinations of human and animal forms. 19 b. Hellenic style 1 understand by this term the whole of oligochrome pottery from the periods  of the growth, blossoming, and decline of Greek culture down to the Romans,  who also expressed their power through the arts."[INPUT: Semper__Style_in_the_Technical_and_Tectonic_Arts_or_Practical_Aesthetics.pdf]

10. "Many scholars use the term “prosthesis” regularly, and often reductively, as a synonym for common forms of body-machine interface. This occurs most explicitly in discussions of the cyborg, especially as introduced by scholars of science and technology studies like Donna Haraway. 2 Books such as Celia Lury’s Prosthetic Culture or Gabriel Brahm and Mark Driscoll’s anthology Prosthetic Territories use prostheses metaphorically THE SUM OF ITS PARTS 3 to discuss artificial objects that mediate human relations. 3 In these studies, which owe much to the critical work on technologies of self making proposed by Michel Foucault, any machine or technology that intervenes on human subjectivity, such as a telephone, a computer, or a sexual device, can be said to be prosthetic. 4 As Kathy Woodward has written, “[T]echnology serves fundamentally as a prosthesis of the human body, one that ultimately displaces the material body. ”5 Such assertions, while intellectually provocative and culturally insightful, hardly begin to comprehend the complex historical and social origins of prosthetics."[Ott, Katherine, David Serlin, and Stephen Mihm *Artificial Parts, Practical Lives: Modern Histories of Prosthetics*. NYU Press, 2002.]

11. "Using the language of film here may be anachronistic, but it is irresistible because the designer of Trajan’s Column was anticipating certain film techniques familiar to studio directors. Trees, for example, appear not just as elements of landscape, but serve to divide distinct scenes, as today a director would use a visual cut. The frieze also makes adroit use of multiple viewpoints, especially the aerial perspective or bird’s-eye view, to heighten the drama of battle, and also to give extra narrative information."[Spivey, Nigel *How Art Made the World: A Journey to the Origins of Human Creativity*. Basic Books, 2005.]

12. "In this milieu, the choice of dress becomes an important way both for establishing identity and demonstrating allegiances and is therefore a political as well as an expressive tool. Change in dress which is material signifies change in nonmaterial culture. “Dress … can be an extremely powerful, symbolic, ritualized way of expressing and reinforcing subtle values, relationships, and meanings in human cultures” (2015:123). A feature of the commercial system is the proliferation of computer and internet technology, which enables the transference of huge amounts of information, linking Think Fashion or Tradition?"[Cliffe, Sheila *The Social Life of Kimono: Japanese Fashion Past and Present*. Bloomsbury Academic, 2017.]

13. "Activities on the stud thus reflect the ideas of procreation and gender built into the pedigree method of relating racehorses. On the stud, horses are also personalised and individualised, granted human traits and drawn into relationships which operate according to the template of human interactions, thus encouraging metonymic thinking in which horses can be made to ‘stand for’ humans and vice versa. Conclusion This chapter concentrated upon those contexts in which horses are personalised or individualised in seemingly human terms."[Cassidy, Rebecca *The Sport of Kings: Kinship, Class and Thoroughbred Breeding in Newmarket*. Cambridge University Press, 2002.]

14. "Human beings cannot help but impose temporal and spatial relationships on sensed data that may be, essentially, incompatible with space or time. Hardly disappointed, he is impressed with human prosperity within the confines of an inscrutable nature. Human success may not be pure, but it is practical. We interpret nature in a way that exposes its rewards, so our senses must be doing something right. As such, he recognizes that humans are imaginative creatures who enjoy considering new combinations of sensed particulars that elicit this feeling of practical mastery."[(auth.), Timothy J. Lukes *Politics and Beauty in America: The Liberal Aesthetics of P.T. Barnum, John Muir, and Harley Earl*. Palgrave Macmillan US, 2016.]

15. "This skyscraper therefore exempliﬁes not only the machine age in the 1920s but also that machine age’s nostalgia for the human and, even more intriguingly, to recall Naomi’s Schor’s work on the gendered history of the detail, for feminine detail/ ornamentation. Ann Douglas has also observed the “womb-likeness” of the highly masculinized skyscraper in her chapter “Syscrapers, Airplanes, and Airmindedness: ‘The Necessary Angel,” from Terrible Honesty, 434–461. 5. Mardges Bacon, Le Corbusier in America, xiii–xv."[Cheng, Anne Anlin *Second Skin: Josephine Baker & the Modern Surface*. Oxford University Press, 2011.]

16. "Recent literature on the social role of the body, for example in the work of Bourdieu and Jackson, has described the way in which collective representations, and the accompanying values and priorities, are woven into bodily dispositions and attitudes. Conventional ways of walking, sitting, standing and gesturing not only reﬂect but also sustain a community’s ‘scheme of things’. In this context, authors have suggested various techniques and situations whereby these approved demeanours are developed and maintained: in forms of physical work, in childhood upbringing, in the human inclination to imitate, and in interaction with other people and with objects."[Andrewes, Janet *Bodywork: Dress As Cultural Tool (African Social Studies Series)*. 2004.]

17. "Architecture can either amplify such feelings of awe or anxiety, or assuage them. Caspar David Friedrich, Cemetery at Dusk (c. 1825). the painterly tradition The dominant way of understanding the interrelationship between landscape and human meaning in Western culture in modern times has, however, principally derived from the visual arts."[Worpole, Ken *Last Landscapes: The Architecture of the Cemetery in the West*. 2004.]

18. "In Newmarket, these are not just the natural facts about racehorses. Facilitated by the capacity for analogic thought and the ability of racehorses to become signs and thus ‘stand for’ other things, these ‘natural facts’ influence ideas of human relatedness also. The ‘rub’ is that even where informants’ ideas regarding human reproduction were based upon sophisticated knowledge of genetic contribution Conclusions 169 that contradicted monogeneticism, they still used this model to explain the life path of an adult individual."[Cassidy, Rebecca *The Sport of Kings: Kinship, Class and Thoroughbred Breeding in Newmarket*. Cambridge University Press, 2002.]

19. "In his travels, Varthema came across Mamluks, Arabs, Bedouins, Hindus, as well as Southeast Asians. Breu’s need to distinguish among them discouraged the use of simple formulaic inversions of European cultural norms to depict these nonEuropeans. His solution was to construct a visual system by which to organize his subjects, a system that edited Varthema’s impressions for clarity and consistency. His illustrations expressed and distinguished cultural difference, first and foremost, through costume. Breu finds in costume a way to visually chart human variety, but also a method of categorizing cultural difference."[(auth.), Stephanie Leitch *Mapping Ethnography in Early Modern Germany: New Worlds in Print Culture*. Palgrave Macmillan US, 2010.]

20. "As Warren Montag (1997: 287) puts it, this involves “adjusting the boundaries of the human species,” such that those who do not share it are seen to be non-human or scarcely human. In other words, any idea of humanness involves not only a division between 71 Nudity: A Cultural Anatomy human and non-human, but also the implicit or explicit imaging of internal boundaries dividing humanity into “types” and/or gradations. To take just one infamous example, Darwin conceived of humanity as a gradual ascent from the “savage” to the European."[Barcan, Ruth *Nudity: A Cultural Anatomy*. Berg Publishers, 2004.]

21. "But they were important for several reasons. One is that despite the potential of balloons for warfare, aerial voyagers promoted human endeavour and discovery. They added enlightenment by way of science; they also reflected on what humanity was and should be. Narratives were critical of corruption below. The poem about Crosbie’s ascent, for instance, takes the opportunity of an imaginary view from above to moralise in favour of better behaviours between humans. 61 Dystopia and utopia are shifty categories here."[Brant, Clare *Balloon Madness: Flights of Imagination in Britain, 1783-1786*. Boydell & Brewer, 2017.]

22. "Instead, I shall continue exploring how this painting’s truth or ambition is ultimately bound up with exploring the very power material objects have over human subjects and, as a result, what affiliations — what fact and manner or mode of relationships — such power either potentially enables or constrains. This exploration obviously will necessitate a return to consider further this painting’s formal features and subject matter. And in order to understand better Remington’s achievement in With the Eye of the Mind, this exploration of human-object relations will turn, by way of contrast, to Remington’s use of the composite sketch technique in the initial stage of his career."[Tatum, Stephen *In the Remington Moment*. University of Nebraska Press, 2010.]

23. "Therefore, we consciously refine and filter out what is not important. The superficial perspective simply helps people to cope with and relate to their environment. As a result, we judge a book by its cover. It is a way to gain an overview and survive in a society characterized by information overload. Human beings are visual creatures – and when social structure and lifestyle compel them to use that instinct often, the exterior acquires more power. First impressions become extra important – along with whatever is on the surface."[Arntzen, Mari Grinde, and Kerri Pierce *Dress Code : The Naked Truth About Fashion*. Tra. London, UK: Reaktion Books, 2015.]

24. "Although the shape of the new growth replicates the original trajectory, it also takes its own course: it is a part of the same tooth substance, yet it also travels a path set apart from Figure 15. Mark Bovo poses with his prize circle tusk (Amatbobo, February 2000). Fluid Technologies 107 the original. Perceiving pig tusks in this way suggests that the cycling of exchange relations is not simply a repetitive process, but is also productive and regenerative through space and time. This conception is particularly potent in regard to the relation of such images to ideas of ancestral regeneration and the process of birth, growth, death, and rebirth."[Taylor, John Patrick *The Other Side: Ways of Being and Place in Vanuatu (Pacific Islands Monograph Series)*. 2008.]

25. "It is a masterpiece of Ice Age art, and it’s also evidence of a huge change in the way in which the human brain was working. The stone tools we looked at previously raised the question of whether it is making things that makes us human. Could you conceive of being human without using objects to negotiate the world?I don’t think I can. But there’s another question that follows quite quickly once you start looking at these very ancient things."[MacGregor, Neil *A History of the World in 100 Objects*. Penguin Group US, 2011.]