Created: 2025-11-02 18:40:58
Origin: suggested
Selected: Draughtsmen too often draw from and by the front of the figure alone. To break off suddenly in the middle of a work on drawing, in the middle of a chapter mainly consecrated up to nowto the detailed examination of a pen drawing by Rembrandt of a female nude, thus to break off and enter into an examina- tion of architecture, more especially ogival, may, at first sight, seem to be the height of inconsequence and incoherence. Nonetheless I am doing it after mature reflection, and with a clearly defined thesis in view ; I am doing it here because I can conceive of no better moment for developing a thesis which, far from being side issue of the present gospel, is 164 STRUCTURAL ENSEMBLE an inherent part of it.[The art and craft of drawing, Vernon Blake, 1927]

--- Context List ---
01. "Draughtsmen too often draw from and by the front of the figure alone. To break off suddenly in the middle of a work on drawing, in the middle of a chapter mainly consecrated up to nowto the detailed examination of a pen drawing by Rembrandt of a female nude, thus to break off and enter into an examina- tion of architecture, more especially ogival, may, at first sight, seem to be the height of inconsequence and incoherence. Nonetheless I am doing it after mature reflection, and with a clearly defined thesis in view ; I am doing it here because I can conceive of no better moment for developing a thesis which, far from being side issue of the present gospel, is 164 STRUCTURAL ENSEMBLE an inherent part of it."[The art and craft of drawing, Vernon Blake, 1927]

02. " Some English art historians have been directing attention to the  transactions between language and the visual arts: Michael Baxandall  with the early Italian humanists,3 T. J. Clark with French nineteenth  century painting,4 and Norman Bryson with seventeenth- and  eighteenth-century French painting. 5 Their studies, which have  advanced art history into an area never properly investigated, show  painters and commentators trying to extricate painting from language  or trying to accommodate to it, in what was not so much a war  between the verbal and the visible as an economy between them, full  of friction though the deals back and forth may have been. I have  found their work invaluable and stimulating. It seems to me, how?  ever, that this economy dominated by the trade between two powers  cannot be transferred to the study of architecture without adaption,  for the architectural drawing constitutes a third force that may well  equal those of the art work and its commentaries. "[INPUT: [AA Files 1986-sum iss. 12] Robin Evans - TRANSLATIONS FROM DRAWING TO BUILDING (1986) [10.2307_29543512] - libgen.li.pdf]

03. "Thus a priori principles form the basis of objectively valid, though empirical, judgments—that is, of the possibility of experience so far as it must connect objects as existing in nature. These principles are the real laws of nature, which may be termed “dynamical. ” Finally knowledge of the agreement and connection, not only of appearances among themselves in experience, but of their relation to experience in general, belongs to the judgments of experience. This relation contains either their agreement with the formal conditions, which the understanding recognizes, or their coherence with the materials of the senses and of perception, or combines both into one concept."[Philosophic Classics: From Plato to Derrida, Forrest E. Baird, 2016]

04. "JSTOR, please contact support@jstor. org. Architectural Association School of Architecture is collaborating with JSTOR to digitize, preserve and extend access to AA Files This content downloaded from 129. 100. 58. 76 on Wed, 15 Jun 2016 10:50:38 UTC All use subject to http://about. jstor. org/terms  \MMWT^m^m^m^m^m^m^m^B)m^m^m^?^m^m^m^B^m^m^m^m^m^m^mmX  TRANSLATIONS  FROM  DRAWING TO BUILDING  Robin Evans  To translate is to convey. It is to move something without  altering it. 1 This is its original meaning and this is what  happens in translatory motion. Such too, by analogy with  translatory motion, the translation of languages. Yet the substratum  across which the sense of words is translated from language to  language does not appear to have the requisite evenness and continu? "[INPUT: [AA Files 1986-sum iss. 12] Robin Evans - TRANSLATIONS FROM DRAWING TO BUILDING (1986) [10.2307_29543512] - libgen.li.pdf]

05. "The European system, in order to escape unconvincing dryness, has to be modified by the judgementand invention of the artist ; the Chinese system has likewise on occasion to abandon subservience to its formulae. Weare once more reminded that Art and perfectly co-ordinated Scientific Theory are not identical. Of recent years these modifications brought to European perspective have vastly increased. An extended discussion of this matter belongs more properly to the domain of the technique of modern art."[The art and craft of drawing, Vernon Blake, 1927]

06. "This insight and understanding are brought about by the arts in general on the plane of feeling and emotion, whence “art is the creation of forms symbolic of 612 The Contemporary Period human feeling. ”But music in particular is the presentational form par excellence, for its “tonal structures . . . bear a close logical similarity to the forms of human feeling. ” This analysis, begun in Philosophy in a New Key, is extended in Langer’s later work, Feeling and Form. For Langer, then, the human being is both receiver and communicator."[Historical introduction to philosophy, Hakim, Albert, 2016]

07. "This desire led me to avoid, to a great extent, the method of dividing into chapters and into paragraphs classed according to the compartment treated. If method there be in the composing of this book, it consists in examining any given drawing underall its aspects, however distinct they may be from one another ac- cording to accepted tenets. Though such system—or lack of system—may possibly do its work in calling attention to the fundamental homogeneity of artistic expression, it 1s evident that it is not a form of presentation convenient for reference and for study."[The art and craft of drawing, Vernon Blake, 1927]

08. "Thus, given the experience of this work of art as beautiful, the effort to discover why this is so is what the philosophy of art is all about. An example of an entirely different texture is had in language—our ordinary everyday use of words. Our experience is generally one of satisfaction that by the words we use and the sentences we fashion we can communicate with others in speech and writing. The questions we raise usually refer to grammar or style."[Historical introduction to philosophy, Hakim, Albert, 2016]

09. "Ockham’s injunction asserted that “entities are not to be multiplied beyond necessity,” meaning one should always seek the simplest explanation. Russell’s version of this principle, articulated in several of his works, states that “Whenever possible, substitute constructions out of known entities for inferences to unknown entities. ” In the selection from The Problems of Philosophy reprinted here, Russell wields this razor in an analysis of the common objects of our sensory perception and our language about such objects."[Philosophic Classics: From Plato to Derrida, Forrest E. Baird, 2016]

10. "Not only is the main step from work to art a circle like the step from art to work, but every separate step that we attempt circles in this circle. In order to discover the nature of the art that really prevails in the work, let us go to the actual work and ask the work what and how it is. Works of art are familiar to everyone. Architectural and sculptural works can be seen installed in public places, in churches, and in dwellings. Art works of the most diverse periods and peoples are The Origin of the Work of Art ® 19 housed in collections and exhibitions."[Poetry, Language, Thought , Martin Heidegger, 2001]