Created: 2025-11-08 12:38:27
Origin: suggested
Selected: This interaction, however, assumes different forms in different fields and in different historical periods. In the context of modern academic science, the modes of this interaction range from casual gatherings and seminars to discipleship, co-authorship, and to such relatively institutionalized forms of interaction as the publication of a special journal, the establishment of a separate scientific association (as in the various psychoanalytic schools or the Prague Linguistic Circle), or the organization of scientific meetings and conventions.[(auth.), Olga Amsterdamska *Schools of Thought: The Development of Linguistics from Bopp to Saussure*. Springer Netherlands, 1987.]

--- Context List ---
01. "This interaction, however, assumes different forms in different fields and in different historical periods. In the context of modern academic science, the modes of this interaction range from casual gatherings and seminars to discipleship, co-authorship, and to such relatively institutionalized forms of interaction as the publication of a special journal, the establishment of a separate scientific association (as in the various psychoanalytic schools or the Prague Linguistic Circle), or the organization of scientific meetings and conventions."[(auth.), Olga Amsterdamska *Schools of Thought: The Development of Linguistics from Bopp to Saussure*. Springer Netherlands, 1987.]

02. "the progression from subjective evaluation of the functional properties of a class of elements to speaker-and-hearershared objective knowledge about the functional properties of that class of elements."[Kristiansen, Gitte, and Rene Dirven Gitte Kristiansen *Cognitive Sociolinguistics: Language Variation, Cultural Models, Social Systems (Cognitive Linguistic Research)*. Mouton de Gruyter, 2008.]

03. "Bernstein, in somewhat later work, spoke of the codingorientation of language users, a particular stance towards the resources of the linguistic system overall. The code-user is therefore not excluded from other uses of the linguistic system but is seen to have a disposition towards the resources overall, which leads to strongly preferred selections. The social environment of users of the elaborated code is such that addressees of writing or speech cannot be relied upon to share the knowledge of 186 EXPRESSION the writer/speaker, so that more knowledge needs to be made explicit in the utterance than it might be for members of groups who share more of the relevant knowledge."[*Companion To Semiotics and Linguistics* Routledge, 2010.]

04. "At the level of mode there is difference, of two kinds: one produced by the affordances of the material in which the mode is shaped, and one by the cultural/ social histories of how these affordances have been dealt with in different cultural places, how they have been shaped in the histories of different cultures (one deeply persuasive instance for me are the histories of different writing systems, say, the alphabetic versus the picto/ideographic)."[*Companion To Semiotics and Linguistics* Routledge, 2010.]

05. "Furthermore, coding schemes need to be developed in such a way that that they can be shared across different research communities with different community cultures and different representational and analytical needs. In such circumstances, as analytical categories are re-classified in the light of new audio-visual evidence and as new insights from different research communities emerge, coding schemes need to be maintained as dynamically as possible. 3. 4 Representation The final concern of the corpus development is related to the way in which the multiple streams of coded data are physically re-presented."[Gerbig, Andrea, and Oliver Mason *Language, People, Numbers: Corpus Linguistics and Society (Language and Computers : Studies in Practical Linguistics)*. Rodopi, 2008.]

06. "Kress, G. and T. van Leeuwen. 1996. Reading images. The grammar of visual design. London: Routledge. 'Sailing the islands or watching from the dock' 273 Kress, G. and T. van Leeuwen. 2001. Multimodal discourse: the modes and media of contemporary communication. London: Arnold. Kuhlen, R. 1991. Hypertext. Ein nicht-lineares Medium zwischen Buch und Wissensbank. Berlin: Springer. Lee, B. P. H. 2001. 'Mutual knowledge, background knowledge and shared beliefs: their roles in establishing common ground', Journal of Pragmatics 33: 21-44."[Gerbig, Andrea, and Oliver Mason *Language, People, Numbers: Corpus Linguistics and Society (Language and Computers : Studies in Practical Linguistics)*. Rodopi, 2008.]

07. "This is particularly true of societies where much of the social fabric depends on highly selective access to cultural and historical knowledge, transmission of such knowledge thus involving different levels of secrecy (see Brandt [1980, 1981] for a pertinent example). That is, in some instances a documentation project may contribute to the demise of the very linguistic and cultural practices it proposes to document."[Himmelmann, Nikolaus P., Jost Gippert, and Ulrike Mosel *Essentials of Language Documentation (Trends in Linguistics. Studies and Monographs Tilsm)*. Mouton de Gruyter, 2006.]

08. "In the last part of the past century, however, work originating in different parts of the academic community has in fact promoted interaction in different ways: Either by explicitly exploring overlapping areas of interest and common ground among the different theoretical perspectives, or by relaxing some of the strict dichotomies developed within the dominant theories, opening up venues of rapprochement and cross-talk with other approaches and with other disciplines."[Marmaridou, Sophia S. A. *Reviewing Linguistic Thought: Converging Trends in the 21st Century*. Mouton de Gruyter, 2005.]

09. "In the conveyance of knowledge-through, the message cannot be separated from the medium by which it is communicated, and knowledge-through constitutes a uniquely literary contribution to knowledge, articulating concepts such that they become coordinates for the analysis and evaluation of subsequent knowledge-that, knowledge-how, and knowledge-what. Literature lends substance to beliefs, and, on ‘a deeper level, the creating of such experiences is itself a formation of preferences and values, and so one must undergo such experiences rather than hear about them through description or paraphrase’ (Zamir (2007: 109))."[Bourne, Craig, and Emily Caddick Bourne *The Routledge Companion to Shakespeare and Philosophy*. Routledge, 2018.]

10. "In each case, the linguistic ‘feedback’ from experience is a particular one. Speakers of different languages therefore inhabit different ‘mediary worlds’ (Zwischenwelten). The linguistic worldview of a given community shapes and gives life to the entire landscape of psychological and communal behaviour. It is language which decides how different conceptual groupings and contours are to be ‘read’ and related within the whole."[INPUT: Steiner__After_Babel_Aspects_of_Language_and_Translation.pdf]

11. "The finding of gendered metalanguage indicates that students not only use language in gendered ways, they also understand talk in gendered ways. Does this different alignment to the discourse matter?If the goal of collaborative learning matters, then these different alignments matter as well because they lead to different definitions of collaboration and to some extent, different understanding about what constitutes collaborative learning."[Kristiansen, Gitte, and Rene Dirven Gitte Kristiansen *Cognitive Sociolinguistics: Language Variation, Cultural Models, Social Systems (Cognitive Linguistic Research)*. Mouton de Gruyter, 2008.]

12. "He then constructs a narrative grammar and works out a syntax of narrative programs in which subjects are joined up with or separated from objects of value. In the second phase he works out a cognitive semiotics, where in order to perform, subjects must be competent to do so. The subjects’ competence is organized by means of a modal grammar that accounts for their existence and performance. This modal semiotics opens the way to the ﬁnal phase that studies how passions modify actional and cognitive performance of subjects and how belief and knowledge modify the competence and performance of these very same subjects."[*Companion To Semiotics and Linguistics* Routledge, 2010.]

13. "The grammarian's dream: Lexis as most delicate grammar. In M. Halliday and R. Fawcett (eds. ), New Developments in Systemic Linguistics. London: Pinter, 184-211. Kintsch, W. 1988. The role of knowledge in discourse comprehension: A 'construction-integration model'. Psychological Review 95/2, 163-82. Kintsch, W. 1989. The representation of knowledge and the use of knowledge in discourse comprehension. In R. Dietrich & C. Graumann (eds. ), Language Processing in Social Context."[Gerbig, Andrea, and Oliver Mason *Language, People, Numbers: Corpus Linguistics and Society (Language and Computers : Studies in Practical Linguistics)*. Rodopi, 2008.]

14. "For example, a researcher who wants to carry out a structured search to look for a linguistic phenomenon in some language will need a different kind of interface than a member of a speech community who wants to find recordings of a certain ceremony and listen to or look at the recordings. Researchers from different disciplines may have completely different requirements with respect to the way they want to search, browse, or view data in the archive. It is next to impossible to say anything about possible usages in a few hundreds years."[Himmelmann, Nikolaus P., Jost Gippert, and Ulrike Mosel *Essentials of Language Documentation (Trends in Linguistics. Studies and Monographs Tilsm)*. Mouton de Gruyter, 2006.]

15. "To begin with, the idealization of a completely homogeneous language community has to be given up, together with the tendency to think of conceptual knowledge only in referentially descriptive terms: our knowledge about any thing may include the knowledge that other people’s knowledge about that thing is superior (or inferior, for that matter). The 40 Dirk Geeraerts former point (the heterogeneity of linguistic knowledge) calls for an empirical investigation into the actual distribution of semantic and lexical knowledge."[Kristiansen, Gitte, and Rene Dirven Gitte Kristiansen *Cognitive Sociolinguistics: Language Variation, Cultural Models, Social Systems (Cognitive Linguistic Research)*. Mouton de Gruyter, 2008.]