Created: 2025-12-27 17:48:54
Origin: suggested
Selected: An ingenious device to siphon daylight deeply into a building, this glazed opening serves also to share illumination between rooms demanding acoustic separation, so as to spread light in a peaceful way, free of disrupting noise. Dining Room Window onto Kitchen Stair Church Family Dwelling House Hancock, Massachusetts Window between Kitchen Stair and Dining Room Church Family Dwelling House Hancock, Massachusetts Window onto Landing of Stair Spin Shop Canterbury, New Hampshire Closet Window Center Family Dwelling House Pleasant Hill, Kentucky DOUBLE WINDOW By guiding a portion of daylight directly across an intervening space, the double window illuminates two different rooms at once, ordinarily a perimeter stair and a room further inside.[Plummer, Henry *Stillness and Light: The Silent Eloquence of Shaker Architecture*. Indiana University Press, 2009.]

--- Context List ---
01. "An ingenious device to siphon daylight deeply into a building, this glazed opening serves also to share illumination between rooms demanding acoustic separation, so as to spread light in a peaceful way, free of disrupting noise. Dining Room Window onto Kitchen Stair Church Family Dwelling House Hancock, Massachusetts Window between Kitchen Stair and Dining Room Church Family Dwelling House Hancock, Massachusetts Window onto Landing of Stair Spin Shop Canterbury, New Hampshire Closet Window Center Family Dwelling House Pleasant Hill, Kentucky DOUBLE WINDOW By guiding a portion of daylight directly across an intervening space, the double window illuminates two different rooms at once, ordinarily a perimeter stair and a room further inside."[Plummer, Henry *Stillness and Light: The Silent Eloquence of Shaker Architecture*. Indiana University Press, 2009.]

02. "Create faux windows by cutting out the inner, “window” portion of a rubber-stamped or printed window-frame image. Place an image behind the frame to create your own view. Use foam adhesive tape between your window image and the “view” behind it to add a three-dimensional effect. Use miniature wooden windows, available from dollhouse shops and craft stores."[Oliveau, Tally, and Julie Molina *Mixed-Media Dollhouses: Techniques and Ideas for Doll-size Assemblages*. Quarry Books, 2010.]

03. "For a discussion of the spatial implications notes to pages 23–42 245 of the horizontal window, see Bruno Reichlin, “The Pros and Cons of the Horizontal Window,” Daidalos 13 (1984), 65–79."[Leatherbarrow, David, and Mohsen Mostafavi *Surface Architecture*. 2002.]

04. "WINDOW PAGE 85 Ute 19th century Through a portrait shaped  parte (left) and a mini-ribbon window (right), the  PUtside can be seen, for the first time, even if  H fcee ns are closed, isolating the view from  tfraphysical sensation of the outdoors. 1908 Hybrid: enormous western-style bay  window / turret sits atop Japanese porch roof  In Nishitani Ichisuke, Minamitsugaru County,  Aomori Prefecture. "[INPUT: window.pdf]

05. "Stop Extender See extension blind stop. Stop Screw A screw for fastening a stop to the window frame. Storm Clip A device attached to the muntin of a metal sash to prevent the pane from moving outward. Stormproof Window A window for resisting high wind and precipitation. Storm Sash Also storm window. An extra window on the outside to protect an existing window but mainly to increase the window's thermal resistance."[York, New *Repairing Old and Historic Windows: A Manual for Architects and Homeowners*. Washington, D.C: Preservation Press, National Trust for Historic Preservation, 1992.]

06. "A butterfly wing or silk flower petal covering half of the open window would make a lovely curtain-like effect."[Smith, Sally J. *Fairy Houses: How to Create Whimsical Homes for Fairy Folk*. Cool Springs Press, 2016.]

07. "LUNETTE A semi-circular window generally at high level in a façade, compositionally of less significance than a Diocletian window."[Chitham, Robert *The Classical Orders of Architecture,*. 2nd ed. Architectural Press, 2005.]

08. "BtAitlFtltJl ncmRG w indow s Give one Me. mretz  nur cun 'our-or-d o o r s" reeune>'. me id f a i PicraPë window t o  a  i: August 8, 1952 The Christian Science Monitor registers the growing skepticism around the picture  window. In the accompanying article, an unnamed "New England" architect declares: "It's just about  time we called a halt to this picture window fad. And I call it a fad not because the picture window  does not have genuine, practical value as a link between the outdoors and the indoors, but because its  use is being seriously abused" -  by undiscerning builders who install them as a default, even directly  facing the neighbor's picture window. . . "[INPUT: window.pdf]

09. "Often an adjoining room will also be lit from the outside of the building. The average daylight factors from each set of glazing can simply be added together. 2. 2. 5 2. 2. 5. 1 Window shape and position View Once the window area has been fixed, perhaps as indicated in section 2. 2. 2, the principal visual determinants of window shape and position are: — view — visual comfort — distribution of daylight."[Engineers, Chartered Institute of Building Services *Daylighting and Window Design (CIBSE Lighting Guide)*. Chartered Institution of Building Services Engineers, 1999.]

10. "Palladian Window This window has an arched or “Sunburst” top window with straight panes below the arch."[M.K., Makridakis, and Holland M. *How to Create Rooms of Radiance. Windows Treatments Made Simple*. 2003.]

11. "TOP: Remove the entire window frame when entering a window to perform search and rescue. This precaution will assist in victim removal or allow a rapid escape. Figure 14. 8. Cuts and wounds to the skin comprise the second leading cause of fireground injury. 238 Safety and Survival on the Fireground Figure 14. 9. To vent a window safely with a pike pole when operating from a ground ladder, strike the top of the window first; then work downward."[Dunn, Vincent *Safety and Survival on the Fireground*. Saddle Brook, N.J: Fire Engineering Books & Videos, 1992.]

12. "A peel-and-stick membrane material is suitable for this purpose. Also, filling the space between the frame and the KUDDER ET AL. ON WINDOW FRAMES 87 rough opening with insulation, such as spray polyurethane with controlled or limited expansion, further limits the contact between cold cavity air and the window frame. FIG. 1—Cold cavity air. Break-Metal and Non-Thermally Broken Flashing Pans Through-wall pan flashing is essential for controlling leaks at a window opening."[Barry G. Hardman, Carl R. Wagus, and editors Theresa A. Weston *Performance and Durability of the Window-Wall Interface (ASTM special technical publication, 1484)*. 2006.]

13. "Window frame (perimeter) Mullion Muntin Ventilator, pivoted Projected Ventilator casement Ventilator, projected out Ventilator, projected in Out Windows In Windows viewed from outside Casement Borrowed light Borrowed light Left hand Double hung window Right hand Pivoted Sliding window Sash Sash Horizontal Vertical left hand Vertical right hand Figure D-1 Types of fire window components."[Association., National Fire Protection, and American National Standards Institute *NFPA 80, Fire doors and fire windows*. Quincy, MA: National Fire Protection Association, 1999.]

14. "The BS 8206 criterion is met provided that the window wall faces within 90° of due south and no obstruction, measured in the section perpendicular to the window wall, subtends an angle of more than 25° to the horizontal (see Figure 2. 1). (NB obstructions within 90° of due north of the window need not count here. )2. 1. 4. 1 Case study: how much light does a window receive?"[Engineers, Chartered Institute of Building Services *Daylighting and Window Design (CIBSE Lighting Guide)*. Chartered Institution of Building Services Engineers, 1999.]

15. "Always select your twigs first and make the window frame before cutting the window opening in the wall of the house."[Smith, Sally J. *Fairy Houses: How to Create Whimsical Homes for Fairy Folk*. Cool Springs Press, 2016.]

16. "The window walls, the window reveals, and the interior surfaces adjacent to rooflights should be of high reflectance (white or light-coloured)."[*The SLL Code for Lighting* London: Chartered Institution of Building Services Engineers (CIBSE), 2012.]

17. "Plantation: The name evoking mansions of the South, Plantation shutters have louvers over two inches wide and can even be over four inches wide. Panels are typically installed into the casement of a window. Roller: Typically installed over a window, it can fit into that area in a number of ways, including to the wall surrounding the window, into the eave above a window or in the window reveal."[Stoehr, Kathleen S., and Charles T. Randall *The Window Decorating Book*. Charles Randall, Inc., 2009.]

18. "Lime-rendered infill The infilling of the spaces between timber members with a lime-based cement render. See also Walls and Surfaces, p. 97. Casement window A window which is attached to its frame by one or more hinges along one of its sides. See also Windows and Doors, p. 116. Window lintel The supporting, usually horizontal, member that surmounts a window."[Hopkins, Owen *Reading Architecture  A Visual Lexicon*. Laurence King, 2012.]

19. "But you must remove the existing window and frame to expose the rough opening. Before you remove the existing window, carefully pry off the trim from the inside of the window . Measure the size of the rough open- 68 ing and order a window that calls for the same rough opening size. When you have the new window, check to be sure it's the correct size. Take out the sash, if possible, before removing the frame."[*Windows & skylights* Menlo Park, Calif: Lane Pub. Co, 1982.]

20. "Designed and stenciled by Vladimir and Olga Rozenshtein. 115 IMAGINARY VISTAS The window is another popular architectural stenciling motif. This decorative device, stencil, an excellent way is which many freehand, there are alcove. If o^ATl stencil or precut and space you dont painting a window stencils in a feel window on the market, some of which include overlays for shadows."[Gauss, Jane *Stenciling techniques : a complete guide to traditional and contemporary designs for the home*. New York: Watson-Guptill Publications, 1995.]

21. "This term applies to natural wind flow over a window. Framing Stnictural members to provide a window opening. French Window Two casement sash hinged on the sides to open in the middle; the sash extends to the floor and serves as a door to a porch or terrace. Friction Hinge A window hinge that remains open at any position by means of friction in the hinge."[York, New *Repairing Old and Historic Windows: A Manual for Architects and Homeowners*. Washington, D.C: Preservation Press, National Trust for Historic Preservation, 1992.]

22. "11). This strip window system performed adequately elsewhere in the building. However, at the building locations where the RH was increased to 45 %, the window’s design parameters for condensation resistance were exceeded. A supplementary interior sash with KUDDER ET AL. ON WINDOW FRAMES 95 insulating glass was investigated as a way to improve the condensation performance of the window without the need to remove and completely replace them."[Barry G. Hardman, Carl R. Wagus, and editors Theresa A. Weston *Performance and Durability of the Window-Wall Interface (ASTM special technical publication, 1484)*. 2006.]

23. "338 Wooden glazing bars on Gothickstyle oriel window; Farnham, Surrey; early 19C."[Lewis, Philippa *House  British Domestic Architecture*. Prestel, 2011.]

24. "A rchitect: Peter C. Rodi / Designbank. Indoor Garden Romantic window seat is focal point o f bright, flowery bedroom . Small panes and so ft pillows make it cozy . Casements open for ventilation. Design: Woody Dike and L. W. Grady. WINDOW NOOKS 55 BLOCKS , BEVELS & SPLASHES OF COLOR MAKE WINDOW MAGIC Interplay Lively swirl of stained g lass adds colo r and rhythm to e ntryway."[*Windows & skylights* Menlo Park, Calif: Lane Pub. Co, 1982.]

25. "“Scenes with hills and trees. ” Window ﬁlm is still a popular inexpensive after-market accessory on pickup trucks. Colorful images of eagles, deer, landscapes, and American ﬂags are still in demand. (Gila Window Film is now a product of Solutia Inc. , a subsidiary of Eastman Chemical Company and specializes in DIY window tints. )Courtesy of Gila Window Classics™, J. Calvin Hill, Gila River Products, Chandler, Arizona; correspondence with the author, December 22, 1982; and sales brochures, n. d. 221 Interior View Exterior View In the 1970s, engineer Roland Hill, “concerned only with one-way vision products,” faced a challenge technically not unlike the one faced by the housewives of East Baltimore."[Eff, Elaine *The Painted Screens of Baltimore: An Urban Folk Art Revealed*. University Press of Mississippi, 2013.]