Created: 2025-12-29 16:48:31
Origin: suggested
Selected: Though technically operating within the same space, they navigate as if they 164 b ri an w. ch ane n were in a more smooth space. As Nunes says, referring again to the ideas of Deleuze and Guattari, “smooth space sets up a nomadic system of movement,” where “lines become vectors, rather than units of measurement” (64). This tension between striated and smooth space, between movement on a grid or network and nomadic wandering in a free space, is the inherent tension of digital space and the binary opposition—presented using the very same vocabulary—that runs throughout Against the Day.[Herzogenrath, Bernd *Travels in Intermediality: ReBlurring the Boundaries*. Dartmouth, 2012.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Though technically operating within the same space, they navigate as if they 164 b ri an w. ch ane n were in a more smooth space. As Nunes says, referring again to the ideas of Deleuze and Guattari, “smooth space sets up a nomadic system of movement,” where “lines become vectors, rather than units of measurement” (64). This tension between striated and smooth space, between movement on a grid or network and nomadic wandering in a free space, is the inherent tension of digital space and the binary opposition—presented using the very same vocabulary—that runs throughout Against the Day."[Herzogenrath, Bernd *Travels in Intermediality: ReBlurring the Boundaries*. Dartmouth, 2012.]

02. "Through the digitalization of the city new landmarks are created in the digital landscape with its origins and roots in the physical world, and new digital imprints are making themselves visible throughout the city (Croon Fors & Wiberg, 2010). From a more philosophical viewpoint, and as further described in the end of this book, the new landscape forming in-between the physical, the social and the digital is also to a large extent a temporal landscape."[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

03. "Our focus is the human being with his/her sensual, cognitive and culturally coded experiences in order to create contact between people via perceptive, performative and mobile interfaces [7]. Due to its superposition with the digitally networked environment, physical space appears to be an information and knowledge space. The term knowledge space C8] refers to an architectural rapprochement to digitally stored information - for example a digital archive of sounds."[Betsky, Aaron, Ole Bouman, David Deutsch, Elizabeth Diller Ricardo Scofidio, Monika Fleischmann Wolfgang Strauss, Sulan Kolatan William Mac Donald, and William J. Mitchell et al. *Disappearing Architecture: From Real to Virtual to Quantum*. Birkhäuser Architecture, 2001.]

04. "For this will only come about through a marked shift in creative manner, and a thorough recalibration of notions of cultural reception. dECOi looks to attain a new intensity of architecture, sufﬁcient, as it were, to a 77 technological latency understanding of such changed socius4, and what ‘new’ (or not) cultural appe- 78 technological latency newly digital imagination, which operates (we venture) according to a very different conceptual register than that of pre-digital cognition. Our goal is to begin to articulate a legitimate model of digital praxis, which develops as a fully creative, as well as productive enterprise, through a reﬂection on the changed condition wrought by ‘the digital’ in a broad sense."[Goulthorpe, Mark *The Possibility of (an) Architecture: Selected Essays by Mark Goulthorpe dECOi*. 2008.]

05. "© Diller Scofidio + Renfro, Mark Hansen, Laura Kurgan, and Ben Rubin, in collaboration with Robert Gerard Pietrusko and Stewart Smith. need to straddle between physical and digital domains, and therefore change the very tools with which to design and manage cities. In this post-perspectival space shaped by simultaneity and endless differentiation, the image of the digital network cannot any longer be associated with the modernist idea of legibility: the dynamics of spatial or purely digital interaction seem too complex, rapid, and distributed for designers to claim to be able to control them."[Bottazzi, Roberto *Digital Architecture Beyond Computers: Fragments of a Cultural History of Computational Design*. Hardcover. Bloomsbury Visual Arts, 2018.]

06. "In this book I define interactive textures as “digitalized materials, physically manifested, and capable of representing information and potentially also to scaffold interaction”. These new textures are part of larger constructions of intertwined physical, social and digital materials (Robles & Wiberg, 2010). Interactive textures enable the physical to communicate remote information, and it enables a physical space to become active, query-able, and connected. Further on, it enables the digital to situate and manifest itself in the physical world, i. e."[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

07. "The penetration of digital devices in daily life has made it impossible to discuss networks as pure technological products detached from social considerations. Networks exchange, connect, and act in between objects—be them buildings, data, or people. As Keller Easterling suggested, this is a paradigm shift that has started from the hardware of cables, routers, etc. , to eventually infect software. The emergence of BIM—a virtual platform to exchange information—has changed the workflow of digital designers, including communication tools within CAD environments."[Bottazzi, Roberto *Digital Architecture Beyond Computers: Fragments of a Cultural History of Computational Design*. Hardcover. Bloomsbury Visual Arts, 2018.]

08. "This interpretation recapitulates a genealogy of digital thinking derived from early definitions of the Objectile – the generic, generative, open-ended notation that Deleuze and Cache hailed as the new technical object of post-modernity and of the digital age. Schumacher refers more particularly to Eisenman and Lynn’s ‘digital tectonics’ of the early 1990s, and his generalisation of similar principles at the scale of urban design equally sums up tenets of Stan Allen’s theory of ‘field conditions’, complexity theory, self-organisation, emergence and morphogenetics."[Carpo, Mario *The digital turn in architecture 1990-2010*. Chichester: Wiley, 2012.]

09. "The development of cartographic web services Application Programming Interface (APIs) and new data processing technologies are giving space to the expression of a new culture of mapmaking in cyberspace. The results obtained with this mapping process is based on the digital exploration: geo-spatial information generated through computational methods of knowledge construction, are represented with the design of interfaces for geo-visualization which are developed from the principles of cognitive/usability."[Cocchiarella, Luigi *The Visual Language of Technique: Volume 2 - Heritage and Expectations in Research*. Cham u.a: Springer International Publishing, Cham, 2015.]

10. "atmosphere" to another. The link between On the end of the video floor are broken analog and digital fields concerning the "information strips" which are four folded relationship between architecture and vir- steel fingers with LEDs on top, where the tual media demands new functional and video signals will be translated into texts. typological concepts: Our concept of space This structure supports another level of revolves around the movement of space. information, which should be provided to Spaces inbetween, "media cloths" as pro- the user."[Betsky, Aaron, Ole Bouman, David Deutsch, Elizabeth Diller Ricardo Scofidio, Monika Fleischmann Wolfgang Strauss, Sulan Kolatan William Mac Donald, and William J. Mitchell et al. *Disappearing Architecture: From Real to Virtual to Quantum*. Birkhäuser Architecture, 2001.]

11. "The user will primarily interact with the semantic network to explore the Europeana surrogate space (surrogates being representatives of original objects and their digital representations that remain located at the content provider sites). Europeana can thus be thought of as a network of inter- 1 www. secondlife. com. 2 www. europeana. eu. 33 Figure 5. 1: Europeana, one example of contemporary technical design for a digital library and related information services. operating contextualized object surrogates enabling semantics based object discovery and use."[Guimaraes, Nuno, and Luis Carrico? *Hypermedia Genes: An Evolutionary Perspective on Concepts, Models, and Architectures (Synthesis Lectures on Information Concepts Retrieval and Services)*. 2009.]

12. "If digital tools are understood as more than tools that impose structure onto data, but as instruments participating in a relational field of transformation, then computation aligns more with material practice than predicate logic. In this view, the digital becomes less a space of representation and more a space of emergence where 107"[INPUT: content_small.pdf]

13. "The result, in Kirschenbaum’s phrase, is the emerging field of “digital forensics. ” Digital networks influence print books, and print traditions inform the ways in which the materiality of digital objects is understood and theorized. Thus two dynamics are at work: one in which the Digital Humanities are moving forward to open up new areas of exploration, and another in which they are engaged in a recursive feedback loop with the Traditional Humanities. The effects of such feedback loops can be powerfully transformative, as shown in the work of historian Philip J. Ethington, a pioneer in incorporating spatial and temporal data into library records (Hunt and Ethington 1997)."[Hayles, N. Katherine *How We Think: Digital Media and Contemporary Technogenesis*. University Of Chicago Press, 2012.]

14. "Yet this semblance of information as knowledge (quantitative information or even phenomenological experience), represents an illusionary or dream-like position, because in a sense this new “real-time” shift is a move toward a kind of virtual cannibalization of space, as information now devours itself as quickly as it can be produced (i. e. , the Web, whirling stock market quotes, etc. ). So in a very real way, we now float in a digital ouroboros, as what seems to be real becomes a substitute for what is truly real."[Beckmann, John (ed.), and John Beckmann *Virtual Dimension: Architecture, Representation, and Crash Culture*. Princeton Architectural Press, 1998.]

15. "In her analysis of Cryptonomicon, Hayles says, “the inability of the text to create a conventional narrative is . . . specifically linked to the intermediating dynamics of code and language, print and digital technologies” (255). It is precisely in this area that I see some fruitful possibilities for exploration of the intermedial relations between print and digital that are not addressed by Hayles’s excellent consideration of Cryptonomicon. In order to examine the issue of the changing nature of the print novel in the digital age, I will first investigate some concerns of narrative theory with the nature of space as a structural element of fiction and then investigate the different conceptions of space in digital environments."[Herzogenrath, Bernd *Travels in Intermediality: ReBlurring the Boundaries*. Dartmouth, 2012.]

16. "From the space of the digital nest which gathers materially around us, we must dream of new temporal/spatial interstices which might serve to propitiate the desire for images of the (future) ‘function of inhabiting’. It is here, after a perhaps necessarily rational period of technical assimilation, that architectural discourse must nurture a spatial propensity sufﬁcient for the emergence of a 115 notes on digital nesting (a poetics of evolutionary form) poetics, which is the condition for the emergence of a sufﬁcient digital image."[Goulthorpe, Mark *The Possibility of (an) Architecture: Selected Essays by Mark Goulthorpe dECOi*. 2008.]

17. "The new institutions of the city will perhaps occur at moments of intensity, linked to the wider network of the urban field, and marked not by demarcating lines but by thickened surfaces. Fig 7: Moiré patterns. 72 The Digital Turn in Architecture 1992–2012 Digital Fields Analogue technologies of reproduction work through imprints, traces or transfers. The image may shift in scale or value (as in a negative), but its iconic form is maintained throughout. Internal hierarchies are preserved. A significant shift occurs when an image is converted to digital information."[Carpo, Mario *The digital turn in architecture 1990-2010*. Chichester: Wiley, 2012.]

18. "The graphic form of information, especially in digital environments, often is the information: design is functionality. Information architecture and information design are not isomorphic. Therein lies another whole domain of inquiry into the rhetorical force of digital media. When design structures eliminate any trace or possibility of individual inﬂection or subjective judgment, they conform to a model of mathesis that assumes objective, totalizing, mechanistic, instrumental capability readily absorbed into administering culture."[Drucker, Johanna *SpecLab: Digital Aesthetics and Projects in Speculative Computing*. 2009.]

19. "The shift to a digital semiosphere has profound consequences for semiotic research, particularly with respect to moving beyond categorical distinctions inherent in language descriptions to dynamic and interactive topological views of semiotic systems and semiotic processes. The research 18 Multimodal Digital Humanities 413 paradigm involves interdisciplinary collaboration between social scientists and scientists, at least until semioticians are equipped with the necessary computational skills to design and build their own interactive digital technologies."[(eds.), Peter Pericles Trifonas *International Handbook of Semiotics*. Springer Netherlands, 2015.]

20. "See code Digital Cultures Institute, University of California, Santa Barbara, 34, 100 digital environments: aesthetics of, 131; and aggregation of documents, 173; all material on same screen, 180; creation of intersubjective exchange, 173; differences in means and matter of expressions, 195; future of interdisciplinary work within, 199; organized structures of graphical space, 154–55; for reading and authoring, 216n1 digital humanities: accomplishments of, 22–23; analysis, 29; applied and theoretical ﬁeld, 6; basic elements of, 6, 9; calculation, 23; classiﬁcation systems, 23–24; computation, 23; digital processing, 23; and “discrete” object, 28; early concessions to computational disciplines, 4; and electronic communication, 24; and electronic texts, 7–10; engagement with interpretation and epistemological questions, 6, 24–25; focus on library information management systems, 66; history of design activity, 197–98; induction, 27–28; and intellectual power of information structures, 4; in late 1990s and 2000s, xi; links to computational linguistics, 3; and metatexts, 11; quantitative method, 26–27; and self-identicality, 27; versus speculative computing, 25–30; struggle to keep humanistic theory central to, xiv; terms delimiting principles of, 23–24; traditions of, 207n15; use of information technology, 26; vital to humanities scholarship and research, xii; and work of Father Roberto Busa, 8 digital identity, notion of as absolute and certain, 191 digital images: as code, assumptions about truth value of, 137; dependence upon display, 139; ontology of, 130, 137 digital knowledge representation."[Drucker, Johanna *SpecLab: Digital Aesthetics and Projects in Speculative Computing*. 2009.]

21. "GIS (geographic information system) mapping, GPS (global positioning system) technologies, and their connections with networked and programmable machines have created a culture of spatial exploration in digital media. At least as far back as Henri Lefebvre’s The Production of Space ([1974] 1992), contemporary geographers have thought about space not in static Cartesian terms (which Lefebvre calls represented or conceived space) but as produced through networks of social interactions. As Lefebvre proclaims, (social) practices produce (social) spaces."[Hayles, N. Katherine *How We Think: Digital Media and Contemporary Technogenesis*. University Of Chicago Press, 2012.]

22. "For instance, embedding visual and non-visual languages, nowadays, digital graphics seem to provide a space of representation rather than the traditional representation of space. The parameter time has become operational within space, thus graphic software normally allows users to work on dynamic digital scenes instead of fixed projected images. Furthermore, as elsewhere written, the basic digital innovation replaced the traditional idea of image-model, that is to say an image working as a model, where the three dimensional configuration could only be reconstructed as a mental hologram from a limited series of projections, with the new idea of model-image, that is to say a model living in a three dimensional digital environment and displayed on the two dimensional screen by a potentially unlimited number of non-ambiguous images [6–9]."[Cocchiarella, Luigi *The Visual Language of Technique: Volume 1 - History and Epistemology*. Cham u.a: Springer International Publishing, Cham, 2015.]

23. "The digital machine makes it possible to operate simultaneously on infinite scales of meaning formation. Within the digital machine we strive to be simultaneously located within and dislocated from a community, and through the digital interfaces we manufacture, perception is now perpetually in a state of flux where the only dominant landscape is one of difference."[Beckmann, John (ed.), and John Beckmann *Virtual Dimension: Architecture, Representation, and Crash Culture*. Princeton Architectural Press, 1998.]

24. "A digital viewing in which multiple illustrations can be seen together entails a ‘looking across’ or ‘scanning’ of images that stands as the visual equivalent of what Andrew Piper has termed ‘roaming’. 1 According to Piper, digital texts transgress the horizontal limitations of the page, creating a model where ‘the textual surface is roamable rather than turnable’ and where the ‘adjacency’ of text becomes paramount. 2 Likewise, 5 TAILPIECE 97 the digital illustration archive creates an environment that contravenes the analogue limitations of the genre and allows illustrations from different pages or publications to be displayed alongside each other."[(auth.), Julia Thomas *Nineteenth-Century Illustration and the Digital: Studies in Word and Image*. Palgrave Macmillan, 2017.]

25. "We are moving into yet another new era: THE COMPUTER IS DISAPPEARING. We expect interaction with digital media to become much more physical and less screen based. People will interact with digital technologies through touch, manipulation, and gesture; interaction will increasingly be embodied. People will move through environments embedded with digital artifacts, and will interact with and through technologies in new ways. These new environments promise to be highly complex in terms of their accessibility, functionality, and usability."[Imaz, Manuel, and David Benyon *Designing with Blends: Conceptual Foundations of Human-Computer Interaction and Software Engineering*. The MIT Press, 2007.]