Created: 2025-11-02 14:52:25
Origin: suggested
Selected:  AICR[v. 20020404] Prn:23/02/2006; 11:23 F: DDCS708. tex / p. 4 (172)  Kirstie Edwards et al. Writing research has evolved from being focused primarily on the text in early models into gradually incorporating increasingly complex perspectives, with the writing process recognized as a social and communicative act. Partly, the concern in modeling writing appears to be identifying the influences on the process and partly, identifying the process itself.[Information And Document Design: Varieties on Recent Research (Document Design Companion Series), Information Design Conference, Saul Carliner, Jan Piet Verkens, Cathy De Waele, 2006]

--- Context List ---
01. " AICR[v. 20020404] Prn:23/02/2006; 11:23 F: DDCS708. tex / p. 4 (172)  Kirstie Edwards et al. Writing research has evolved from being focused primarily on the text in early models into gradually incorporating increasingly complex perspectives, with the writing process recognized as a social and communicative act. Partly, the concern in modeling writing appears to be identifying the influences on the process and partly, identifying the process itself."[Information And Document Design: Varieties on Recent Research (Document Design Companion Series), Information Design Conference, Saul Carliner, Jan Piet Verkens, Cathy De Waele, 2006]

02. "Negative experiences in collaborative writing are also reported in the literature, examples of which are competition between authors, anxiety over reviews and loss of document ownership (Sharples 1993, 1999). Thus although there are strong indications that team writing is a good thing, the process appears to have difficulties. Additionally, the causal effect of combined individual, group and social influences on real-life writing practices is lacking in research to date. An understanding of the effect of combined variables on the process and results will identify predictors for optimizing group writing practices."[Information And Document Design: Varieties on Recent Research (Document Design Companion Series), Information Design Conference, Saul Carliner, Jan Piet Verkens, Cathy De Waele, 2006]

03. "In practice these work tasks do not follow sequentially; more often than not we can talk about a pendulum process. Moreover, the purpose will decide how rigid a framework it is convenient to outline in an early stage of the proj- INTRODUCTION 9 ect. In this chapter I therefore distinguish between design processes with a structured framework and those with multiple, flexible, or open frameworks. The presentation of the design process makes up the conclusion of this book. From this point on, books on research methods and methodological rules will have to be consulted to ensure a sound implementation of the entire research project."[Designing Social Science Research, Oddbjørn Bukve, 2018]

04. "The research reported here was further shaped by additional peer review and editorial guidance. Although the methods vary widely from chapter to chapter, to ensure complete disclosure, each author uses the same format for reporting the research and provides information on the same aspects of the research. This similarity among reports allows researchers from different backgrounds to more effectively understand the work of colleagues working with different types of research methods. In the process of doing so, my co-authors and I hope that this book establishes new standards for reporting research on information design and document design."[Information And Document Design: Varieties on Recent Research (Document Design Companion Series), Information Design Conference, Saul Carliner, Jan Piet Verkens, Cathy De Waele, 2006]

05. "They are used to highlight some general antinomies inherent in multidisciplinary design. These experiences are read as illustrations of conflicting research paradigms: a subject-centered versus a process-oriented perspective, a truth-oriented versus a success-oriented approach, different modes of trust building, and" opaqueness" versus control. COTERM: A CASE AT HAND Four researchers with different academic backgrounds in computer science and sociology collaborated in this 2-year research project."[Social Science, Technical Systems, and Cooperative Work: Beyond the Great Divide, Geoffrey Bowker (Ed.), Susan Leigh Star (Ed.), Les Gasser (Ed.), William Turner (Ed.), 2014]

06. "Chapter 10 looks more closely at intervention-oriented designs where research strategies are combined in order to study intervention processes and effects of an intervention. The defining characteristic of such designs is their practical purpose. The final chapter, Chap. 11, deals with the design process. I describe the design process as a process in which the task is to develop and stitch together the different elements or work tasks of the design."[Designing Social Science Research, Oddbjørn Bukve, 2018]

07. "Few narratives of emergence from a technical worldview have been written; perhaps the best is Hales' (1980) remarkable account of his time as a manufacturing engineer using operations research to design work processes for chemical production workers. (Heshusius & Ballard, 1996, collect stories from education and social research. )A sociological inquiry is normally expected to have an explicit methodology. The very notion of methodology, however, supposes that the investigator started out with a clear critical consciousness and purpose, and the whole point of this chapter is that my own consciousness and purpose took form a slow, painful, institutionally located, and historically specific process."[Social Science, Technical Systems, and Cooperative Work: Beyond the Great Divide, Geoffrey Bowker (Ed.), Susan Leigh Star (Ed.), Les Gasser (Ed.), William Turner (Ed.), 2014]

08. "For instance, in the paper “Conceptdriven Interaction Design Research” the authors Stolterman & Wiberg (2010) argues that in the field of interaction design people do not only develop systems based on a human-centered design approach from problem identification to product in a similar process as criticized by Margolis & Robinson (2007). Instead, it is a common approach to also follow a concept-driven process in which guiding theoretical concepts, like the notion of “interactive textures” work as a vision and raw model for the practical efforts made to realize such installations."[Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies, Mikael Wiberg, 2010]

09. "Although little has been written about research design compared with the literature on method, it is a rapidly developing academic field. The international literature discusses the consequences of the development in recent theory of science on our understanding of what social science is and of how social scientists should work. An example of this is the discussion of the role and status of models in the research process, and also the discussion on how to study and uncover social mechanisms. Another example v vi PREFACE is the literature on case studies where recent contributions strongly emphasise design."[Designing Social Science Research, Oddbjørn Bukve, 2018]

10. "Hence the challenge for the composer, who refrains from making use of all the resources of his art until they are developed in Valéry’s story of Amphion’s touch. The same is true for architecture, which at first was to be presented more as a simple exercise of movements and combinations than of structure or composition. In the same way that music retrospectively reflects itself in its own architecture, architecture projects itself in its own generative, not to say musical, process."[Noah’s Ark: Essays on Architecture, Hubert Damisch; Anthony Vidler (ed.), 2016]