Created: 2025-11-08 12:15:51
Origin: searched
Selected: Coding is thus an intersubjective process in which (ideally) the interlocutors converge on the same interpretation. At a given moment, a speaker is capable of invoking any portions of a vast conceptual universe, including both new and established conceptions, as well as new ways of apprehending the latter. Content that is activated and exploited for linguistic purposes represents the maximal scope of awareness for the expressions that result. An essential aspect of this awareness is the ongoing discourse itself: prior expressions, the present usage event, and the projection of further expressions, all centered on the speaker-hearer interaction.[Li, Thomas Fuyin *Compendium of Cognitive Linguistics Research*. Nova Science Publishers, Inc., 2014.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Coding is thus an intersubjective process in which (ideally) the interlocutors converge on the same interpretation. At a given moment, a speaker is capable of invoking any portions of a vast conceptual universe, including both new and established conceptions, as well as new ways of apprehending the latter. Content that is activated and exploited for linguistic purposes represents the maximal scope of awareness for the expressions that result. An essential aspect of this awareness is the ongoing discourse itself: prior expressions, the present usage event, and the projection of further expressions, all centered on the speaker-hearer interaction."[Li, Thomas Fuyin *Compendium of Cognitive Linguistics Research*. Nova Science Publishers, Inc., 2014.]

02. "In this section we provide a completely different construction of the net system p0/ associated with process p, which is compositional and denotational in style. The details of the construction are outlined in Table 4. 5. The encoding is parametrized by a set of constants that has already been found while scanning p; such a set is initially empty and it is used to avoid looping on recursive constants. The deﬁnition is syntax driven and also the places of the constructed net are syntactic objects, i. e. , SFM process terms."[Gorrieri, Roberto *Process Algebras for Petri Nets: The Alphabetization of Distributed Systems*. Springer, 2017.]

03. "This process parallels the fate of Chinese language and script in the formation of modern Japanese, which Atsuko Ueda describes in her chapter below in light of “de-Sinification. ”13 13 Busch 2010. Introduction 13 For Shirane, commentaries in premodern Japan were catalysts for intellectual and cultural activity. They formed a body of discourse that related the canonical text not only to other classical texts but also to contemporary Japanese state and society. Shirane also suggests that the practices of commentators likely paralleled or preceded the paratextual adaptations of ancient texts by vernacular writers, playwrights, and artists."[Elman, Benjamin A. *Rethinking East Asian Languages, Vernaculars, and Literacies, 1000–1919*. Brill Academic Pub, 2014.]

04. "TH E PROCE SS OF THOUG HT 195 ness, but because it is employed to fix a meaning precisely. Ordinary words get a technical quality when used intentionally for this end. Whenever thought becomes more accurate, a (relatively) technical vocabulary grows up. Teachers are apt to oscillate between extremes in regard to technical terms. On the one hand, these are multiplied in every direction, seemingly on the assumption that learning a new piece of terminology, accompanied by verbal description or definition, is equivalent to grasping a new idea."[Hutchins, Robert M., Mortimer J. Adler, and Fred Steffen *Gateway to the Great Books [10 Volume Set]*. William Benton, 1963.]

05. "In other words, as soon as the textual form is translated into the graphical form, new observation and analysis methods become applicable. Thus the translation has the ﬂavor of associating with the language a more expressive concurrent semantics. In the book, a clear choice is made about which models to handle: process description language CCS and Place/Transition (P/T) Petri nets, with various syntactic restrictions to yield the expressiveness hierarchy. Only the top level, Nonpermissive nets, is an extension of P/T nets: the extension is needed to achieve Turingcompleteness."[Gorrieri, Roberto *Process Algebras for Petri Nets: The Alphabetization of Distributed Systems*. Springer, 2017.]

06. "Here again, an old style was innovatively used in a new context, which not only reshaped the image of the style but also remolded the new context. As for the innovation in style, Gunn uses Liang Qichao’s “new style” as a perfect example. Unlike Lin Shu, who engaged in an innovative (subversive?)use of language codes, Liang Qichao forged a new style and created a new language code. The overwhelming characteristic of the “new style” was its hybridity, its “use of vocabulary coined by Meiji-era Japanese to translate Western texts and a set of grammatical phrases and rhetorical devices, also largely derived from Japanese. ” Copyright material from www. palgraveconnect. com - licensed to Universitetsbiblioteket i Tromso - PalgraveConnect - 2011-03-13 30 10. 1057/9780230117044 - Placing the Modern Chinese Vernacular in Transnational Literature, Gang Zhou 9780230109391_03_ch01. indd 30 11/29/2010 5:28:17 PM 31 The fact that Liang’s “new style” was rapidly adopted in the press was more evidence of the contemporary readers’ receptiveness to new language reforms."[Zhou, Gang *Placing the Modern Chinese Vernacular in Transnational Literature*. Palgrave Macmillan, 2011.]

07. "It has also been claimed that the exclusive use of corpus data itself inevitably leads to the production of new theories of language; Malhberg‘s (2005) monograph of English general nouns is a case in point. Malhberg presents a corpustheoretical approach to examining forms of nouns for meaning in context; her analysis reveals descriptions of subtypes and functional categories for each noun type through exclusive evidence from corpus data."[Li, Thomas Fuyin *Compendium of Cognitive Linguistics Research*. Nova Science Publishers, Inc., 2014.]

08. "Any attempt to allow the peasant’s explanation its own force would not make academic sense. For that kind of translation to happen, we need a new system of exchange, and one that recognizes the impossibility of the old. The painful silences in the Book of the Duchess, the awkward sense between dreamer and knight that a phrase has just been spoken in an incomprehensible language, correspond to a passage in her essay on the ‘Politics of Translation’ 40 D. Chakrabarty, Provincializing Europe: Postcolonial Thought and Historical Difference (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 2000), 17; G. C. Spivak, Outside in the Teaching Machine (New York and London: Routledge, 1993), 179–200 (181)."[Butterfield, Ardis *The Familiar Enemy: Chaucer, Language, and Nation in the Hundred Years War*. 2010.]

09. "A comparison between the Sinclairian approach to language analysis and a construction-grammar framework is illustrated in Figure 2. 5. THE SYNTAX-LEXICON CONTINUUM, LEXICOGRAMMAR, LEXICAL GRAMMAR In a traditional, componential theory of generative grammar, a speaker‘s grammatical knowledge is organised into components. Each component describes one specific type of grammatical knowledge. While the phonological component contains a set of rules and constraints governing the sound structure of a sentence of the language, the syntactic and semantic components are comprised of the rules and constraints which can account for the combination of words and the meaning of a sentence."[Li, Thomas Fuyin *Compendium of Cognitive Linguistics Research*. Nova Science Publishers, Inc., 2014.]

10. "The Sequence of the Five Phases Is Not Fixed. The five phases, terminals, or functions of thought that we have noted do not follow one another in a set order. On the contrary, each step in genuine thinking does 122 John Dewey something to perfect the formation of a suggestion and promote its change into a leading idea or directive hypothesis. It does something to promote the location and definition of the problem. Each improvement in the idea leads to new observations that yield new facts or data and help the mind judge more accurately the relevancy of facts already at hand."[Hutchins, Robert M., Mortimer J. Adler, and Fred Steffen *Gateway to the Great Books [10 Volume Set]*. William Benton, 1963.]

11. "That is because these new concepts need to be expressed by newly extended words. As reported by Lehamann (1992:261) "scientific advances or social changes bring about extension of words to new uses. "In other words, scientific and technological development and social change result in the extension of words to ensure the adequacy of use of a language. 4. 1. 2 Blending Bauer (1983:234) and Crystal (1997:90) define blending "as the process by which new words are formed by combining parts of two or more existing words. ""[Mekonnen., Hundie *Lexical Standardization In Oromo*. 2017.]

12. "{C} ∪ sub(p, I ∪ {C}) C ∈ I ∧C = p Table 4. 1 Subterms of a process which is a ﬁnite formal system, indeed. However, in order to describe some simple examples exploiting inﬁnitely many constants, we prefer to allow for a countable set Cons of constants, thus avoiding the explicit ﬁnite parametrization. 2 Deﬁnition 4. 2. (Deﬁned constant, fully deﬁned term and SFM process) A con. stant C is deﬁned if it possesses a deﬁning equation of the form C = p, with p in syntactic category s. A term p is fully deﬁned if all the constants in Const(p) are deﬁned."[Gorrieri, Roberto *Process Algebras for Petri Nets: The Alphabetization of Distributed Systems*. Springer, 2017.]

13. "It is not difficult to find projects that are enjoyable while at the same time they stand for something valuable in life itself. The third condition (really only an amplification of the point just made) is that the project in the course of its development present problems that awaken new curiosity and create a demand for information. There is nothing educative in an activity, however agreeable it may be, that does not lead the mind out into new fields."[Hutchins, Robert M., Mortimer J. Adler, and Fred Steffen *Gateway to the Great Books [10 Volume Set]*. William Benton, 1963.]

14. "This is slightly different from Mori’s proposal to establish commensurability between pronunciation and spelling. In proposing simplified English, Mori sought to relegate script to reflecting pronunciation, hence proposing to change “though” to “tho. ” Nishi, however, sought to retain the spelling “omoshirosi” but in pronunciation skip the s. The idea may seem absurd on the surface, but any written language features a system of agreement with its reading equivalent. According to Mori’s set of evaluative criteria, Nishi’s system would be considered hieroglyphic, but Nishi’s proposal was a practical way to achieve a systematic unification."[Elman, Benjamin A. *Rethinking East Asian Languages, Vernaculars, and Literacies, 1000–1919*. Brill Academic Pub, 2014.]

15. "One side-effect of this is that many individual terms appear in glossaries and thesauri which have never or hardly ever appeared in actual text. This could be because the concepts are almost too recondite to be invoked but normally, it is due to the "parole effect" that individual professionals often use other, circumlocutory means of expression!It ought also to be stated that many new coinages arise during the technical translation process—the responsible task of coining new terms is, more often than not, left to hapless translators by default."[Kahane, Henry *Cultures, Ideologies and the Dictionary: Studies in Honor of Ladislav Zgusta*. Max Niemeyer Verlag GmbH & Co KG, 1995.]