Created: 2025-11-14 16:48:22
Origin: searched
Selected: The second characteristic that is brought out is the fact that any instrumental system requires a perspective on what the system is supposed to achieve and how it is going to be achieved, in the sense of the particular actions that are required from the system’s user. This perspective resides in the user, by recognizing a way to use a particular entity for some purpose and then actually and intentionally using it so, in this way having this entity fill the instrument role of the corresponding instrumental system.[Magnani, Lorenzo *Model-based reasoning in science and technology : theoretical and cognitive issues*. Springer, 2013.]

--- Context List ---
01. "The second characteristic that is brought out is the fact that any instrumental system requires a perspective on what the system is supposed to achieve and how it is going to be achieved, in the sense of the particular actions that are required from the system’s user. This perspective resides in the user, by recognizing a way to use a particular entity for some purpose and then actually and intentionally using it so, in this way having this entity fill the instrument role of the corresponding instrumental system."[Magnani, Lorenzo *Model-based reasoning in science and technology : theoretical and cognitive issues*. Springer, 2013.]

02. "Even if we did accept that, it would not follow that if one stops demanding that the set of meaningful sentences be specified, then natural-language processing programs would be able to 378 Ranan Banerji handle them (to claim such a deduction valid would be one of the earliest fallacies that a student of discrete mathematics in computer science would be warned against). However, it is not clear to me either (as it might be clear to SPIV protagonists - at least according to Partridge and Wilks) that no attempt be made to write and improve natural-language processing programs."[(editor), Derek Partridge, and Yorick Wilks (editor) *The Foundations of Artificial Intelligence: A Sourcebook*. annotated edition. Cambridge University Press, 1990.]

03. "Hence, the semantic-network representation that constitutes the end result of the "understanding" process also becomes a representation of the system's resulting belief (that John believes that Lucy is sweet). This representation can then be operated on in various ways in order to reflect how the system might "reason'' on the basis of its beliefs. Whether any of this works theoretically or empirically is, of course, an open question. For present purposes, the point is only this: Rapaport's Page 168 research fits quite nicely with the program envisaged by Fodor."[Von Eckardt, Barbara *What is cognitive science?*. MIT Press, 1995.]

04. "The best way to accomplish this task is to transform descriptions in an empirically plausible way. For this purpose, Thomas Metzinger [8] has suggested a useful step-by-step strategy, the aim of which is to ultimately provide a conceptual framework for a reductive explanation of experiential features of mental states (note, however, that the broad picture of Nagel’s conception of objectivity as a gradual detachment from the subjective standpoint may be found in here as well): one starts from a phenomenological interpretation of some aspect of subjective experience based on the ﬁrst-person perspective, 12 See 13 Cf."[D'Agostino, Marcello (eds.) *New essays in logic and philosophy of science*. London: College Publivations, 2010.]

05. "In a similar way, a person may feel relatively free yet influenced, through common perceptions and meanings, by the overall values of society. Because individuals respond to shared meanings, society as a 67 INFINITE POTENTIAL whole is able to sustain its complex structure. Human societies, like plasmas, are a synthesis of opposites, allowing for both the freedom of the individual and the collectivism of the whole. (Technically speaking, Bohm was, in this way, able to show why plasmas become unstable in an external magnetic field."[Peat, F. David *Infinite Potential: The Life and Times of David Bohm*. Hardcover. Basic Books, 1996.]

06. "I call this representation of complexity “meaning” thus avoiding all subjective, psychological, or transcendental connotations of this term. The function of meaning is to provide access to all possible topics of communication’ (cited in Qvortrup 1993, 13). In this way Luhmann is able to introduce the concept of meaning in a fundamental system-theoretical way, without having to work with a transcendental subject."[Brier, Soren *Cybersemiotics: Why Information Is Not Enough!*. 2nd. University of Toronto Press, 2008.]

07. "If, in contrast, the human mind were wholly constructed out of modules, then one might expect that there would be severe limits on the structure and complexity of the kinds of thought that we can think. For some, at least, of these modular systems would be domain specific in character, only handling a given range of proprietary concepts. And for sure there should be limits on information-flow through a modular architecture, since one would expect that while some modules would provide their outputs as input to some others, not every module would be linked with every other one."[Hitchcock, Christopher *Contemporary Debates in Philosophy of Science*. Malden, MA: Blackwell Pub, 2004.]

08. "This way, the ﬁrst fundamental function of Searle’s collective intentionality ﬁnds its deﬁnition: the one of function of status, according to which, X, in a social and institutional way, counts as Y , under the aspect C (or in the aspectual context C, which has a social and institutional value, too). [28, pp. 92–129]. The most clear example is paper money: the rectangular piece of paper X (which is, by deﬁnition, an object artfully created, with brute materials such as cellulose and inks) is transformed, by means of a stipulation X : C, that is by laws passed by the various competent International Organisations (International Financial Institutions/World Bank, IMF, CEB etc. , National Governments with their diﬀerent Departments, such as National Banks, Treasury Searle’s collective intentionality 411 Departments etc. )"[D'Agostino, Marcello (eds.) *New essays in logic and philosophy of science*. London: College Publivations, 2010.]

09. "Whenever the processes realized by a particular system are inaccessible, the only way to attempt an analysis consists in assuming that another system, whose processes are accessible, is realizing some of the processes of the ﬁrst inaccessible system. This procedure creates a useful analogy allowing an analysis narrowed to a part of the whole set of processes of the accessible system: as a consequence, the new aimed description is partial and indirect, because it refers to the supposed analogous system rather than to the original one."[D'Agostino, Marcello (eds.) *New essays in logic and philosophy of science*. London: College Publivations, 2010.]

10. "If one built a semantic network to document things and relationships, real and abstract, it was possible to probe into a system in a way that was not possible by simply dumping numbers into a table or a graph. Inevitably the stories could be rather specialized, but it seemed worth trying to elucidate the principle. Imagine a network with nodes: ‘apples’, ‘fruit’, ’healthy’, ‘Mark’, ‘vitamins’, etc, or equivalent things in information infrastructure (computer, payment system, database, etc)."[Burgess, Mark *In Search of Certainty: The science of our information infrastructure*. CreateSpace Independent Publishing Platform, 2013.]

11. "One might also have good reason to speak of"inference" in characterizing the process by which"information"is transformed and transmitted on its way from the rods and cones of the retina to the visual cortex, or in characterizing the process by which a computer transforms and transmits information gleaned from its television eye to some other program as"inference. "This can be a sensible way to talk when we are postulating an explicitly inferential mechanism to account for the transfer, as we might in the case of the computer program."[Jr., Henry E. Kyburg *Science and Reason*. Oxford University Press, USA, 1990.]

12. "More speciﬁcally, this ‘‘feature’’ of the particular ‘‘artifact’’ in question was very well adapted to be a table stabilizer. But no one would think either that the book itself or its particular thickness were designed for the admittedly odd purpose to which it was put. If one did think this, one would be a bad reverse engineer. But this is not because the physical design of books is unimportant, and all that matters is the words on the page. To be sure, it is almost always the case that the words do matter most."[Gander, Eric M. *On Our Minds: How Evolutionary Psychology Is Reshaping the Nature versus Nurture Debate*. Johns Hopkins University Press, 2003.]

13. "It is thus understandable that qualitative regress in the humanities has to appear mysterious. (In our discussion with Gadamer [1978] he emphasized that the problem of regress is an important one for philosophical hermeneutics and one which he would like to think through more closely. )If one disregards the work of our personal life history, then one has stressed too little the Significance and necessity, whether for good or for bad, of human influences."[(auth.), Herman Tennessen, and Leendert P. Mos (eds.) *Annals of Theoretical Psychology*. Springer US, 1986.]

14. "This happens, for instance, in an illuminating way when one teaches, complains about or criticizes communication. According to Fritz, communication principles form a fairly heterogeneous set, including logical principles, dialectical principles, rhetorical principles, politeness principles, and principles of text production (e. g. , topic management). By looking at their context of application and justification, one obtains a more detailed picture of the way in which they are embedded in a historical form of life."[van Eemeren, Frans H., and Bart Garssen *Controversy and Confrontation: Relating controversy analysis with argumentation theory (Controversies)*. 2008.]

15. "One might disambiguate the above situation by making the representation of the hate relation more specific. That is, one might introduce one node for Art-subject-hates-Ike-object, one node for Art-subject-hates-Neal-object, one node for Fred-subject-hates-Ike-object, and one node for Fred-subject-hates-Neal-object. Then when one wanted to represent that Art hates Ike and Fred hates Neal, one would activate only the first and the fourth of these nodes rather than the second and the third. But, as Fodor and Pylyshyn (1988, p. 24) so aptly put it, this proposal "requires rather a lot of microfeatures [i. e."[Von Eckardt, Barbara *What is cognitive science?*. MIT Press, 1995.]