Created: 2025-11-16 19:14:54
Origin: searched
Selected: It is not a concept. Indeed, it is not even a word. In an essay on 'Differance', Derrida demonstrates that the term he has invented on the basis of the French homonym is also an instance of deconstruction, and a kind of ironic tribute to Saussure. It is impossible in speech, he reiterates, to use the term without explicitly invoking the spelling. You cannot, he insists, hear the difference between 'difference' and 'differance' (or difference and 83 differance). The only way to make the distinction evident in speech is to say 'differance (with an a)'.[Belsey, Catherine *Poststructuralism: a very short introduction*. Oxford University Press, 2002.]

--- Context List ---
01. "All of what we have said about switching the letters and on confounding and inverting  the logical order is valid for the syllables as well. Moreover, an entire word can take on the  meaning of another word, as in the case where the preposition ‘pro’ signifies ‘ad’, ‘in’  signifies ‘sub’ and so forth, nouns express the meaning of other nouns, as if by ‘book’ we  mean ‘fleet’, with ‘field’, ‘legion’, or they might be transformed into pronouns, as if ‘I’  signified ‘pope’, ‘you’, ‘consul’, et cetera. Verbs can also become nouns, by making  correspond the noun endings correspond to vocalic actions and tenses, such as in the case  of ‘father’ for ‘read’, ‘of father’ for ‘reads’, ‘to father’ for ‘has read’, ‘by father’ for  ‘reading’, and similar devises that aren’t worth going into.  "[INPUT: Williams et al. - 2010 - The Mathematical Works of Leon Battista Alberti.pdf]

02. "As confusing as the product may sometimes be, it is still the case that our adeptness at dealing with the mess seems to imply a remarkably well-developed capacity to accept the mutual presence of multiple voices, each talking on a different plane about different aspects of the same material. Published texts of plays provide natural occasions for Ule utilization of multiple voices. First, clearly, is the directional track. For example, what is handled in a novel by the connective "John replied, 'No,''' and is managed in a play by having the actor playing John say, "No" (thereupon allowing sound source to serve as the connective), is managed in the play text by merely placing the name of the character on the left-hand side of the page, adding a punctuation mark such as a period or colon, and then beginning the speech."[Goffman, Erving *Frame Analysis. An Essay on the Organization of Experience*. Northeastern University Press, 1986.]

03. "Even so, despite this injunction, the ratio eleven to four  (undecim ad quattuor) is clearly an error for eleven to fourteen (undecim ad  quattuordecim), as a simple comparative drawing would have shown [Alberti 1988: 219  (VII, x)]; see pp. 211–212 in the present volume for more details. The second reason is that  Alberti placed a higher value on written descriptions than on images. He was not alone in  this; various other authors beginning in antiquity also favoured words over images (cf. , for  example, [Furlan 2006: 207] and [Alberti 2007: 21])."[INPUT: Williams et al. - 2010 - The Mathematical Works of Leon Battista Alberti.pdf]

04. "It is this: the individual words in language name objects – sentences are combinations of such names. 8 – In this picture of language we find the roots of the following idea: Every word has a meaning. This meaning is correlated with the word. It is the object for which the word stands. The rest of the book was to examine the implications of this idea and the traps into which it led philosophers, and to suggest routes out of those traps. These routes all begin by dislodging the (pre-philosophical) picture of language expressed by Augustine, which gives rise to the philosophical idea mentioned above."[Monk, Ray *Ludwig Wittgenstein: The Duty of Genius*. New Ed. Vintage, 1991.]

05. "In support of tacit connectives, see the very interesting argument by John Robert Ross ("On Declarative Sentences," in Roderick A. Jacobs and Peter S. Rosenbaum, eds. , Readings in English TTansformational GTammaT [Waltham, Mass. : Ginn & Company, 1970], pp. 222-272) that every unadorned declarative sentence is to be analyzed as an embedded dependent clause of a "performative" clause containing ''I'' as the deleted noun phrase, "say" as the deleted verb in the verb phrase, and "you" as the deleted indirect object, the claim being that only by appealing to this deleted higher clause in the deep structure can certain surface constraints on the use of reflexive pronouns (and certain other locutions) be accounted for by grammatical rules."[Goffman, Erving *Frame Analysis. An Essay on the Organization of Experience*. Northeastern University Press, 1986.]

06. "Let me offer one small example. “Poems of Akhziv,” a vivid cycle of erotic poems written in the 1970s, has been rendered in English by three different translators. One poem begins startlingly with the words (each of the three versions uses the same sexual term) “I have learned to relate to your cunt as to a face. ” But the Hebrew word Amichai uses, ‘ervah, is by no means an obscenity—modern Hebrew has a monosyllabic word, borrowed from the Arabic, that would correspond to the English four-letter term, but Amichai invariably avoids it."[Amichai, Yehuda, and Robert Alter *The Poetry of Yehuda Amichai*. Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2017.]

07. "The Brown Book is divided into two parts, corresponding, roughly, to the method and its application. Part I, introducing the method of language-games, reads almost like a textbook. After an introductory paragraph describing St Augustine’s account of ‘How, as a boy, he learned to talk’, it consists of seventy-two numbered ‘exercises’, many of which invite the reader to, for example: Imagine a people in whose language there is no such form of sentence as ‘the book is in the drawer’ or ‘water is in the glass’, but wherever we should use these forms they say, ‘The book can be taken out of the drawer’, ‘The water can be taken out of the glass’. 16 [see here] Imagine a tribe in whose language there is an expression corresponding to our ‘He has done so and so’, and another expression corresponding to our ‘He can do so and so’, this latter expression, however, being used only where its use is justified by the same fact which would also justify the former expression. 17 [see here] Imagine that human beings or animals were used as reading machines; assume that in order to become reading machines they need a particular training. 18 [see here] The book is difficult to read because the point of imagining these various situations is very rarely spelt out."[Monk, Ray *Ludwig Wittgenstein: The Duty of Genius*. New Ed. Vintage, 1991.]

08. "In such cases often a short etymological explanation is added in order to make users aware of the fact. Note that this did not affect the placing of these characters within the CCD, as 爿 and 黑 are to be considered as radicals and 犬 as series header. It is also interesting to note that in standard Chinese dictionaries 爿 and 黑 also function as radicals in respect to these characters. d) two meaning elements In quite a number of cases neither part indicates the sound, but the character is a compound ideograph; in other words, it has two meaning elements."[Van Amstel, Adrian *Chinese Character Dictionary: A New Approach to Arranging, Explaining and Looking Up Chinese Characters*. Paperback. Createspace Independent Publishing Platform, 2016.]

09. "© 2009 by Scott Russell Sanders All rights reserved No part of this book may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying and recording, or by any information storage and retrieval system, without permission in writing from the publisher. The Association of American University Presses’ Resolution on Permissions constitutes the only exception to this prohibition. The paper used in this publication meets the minimum requirements of American National Standard for Information Sciences—Permanence of Paper for Printed Library Materials, ANSI Z39. 48-1984."[Sanders, Professor Scott Russell *A Conservationist Manifesto*. 2009.]

10. "All rights reserved. Except for brief quotations in a review, this book, or any part thereof, may not be reproduced, stored in or introduced into a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise, without the prior written permission of the publisher. ISBN EAN ISBN EAN 1 85043 805 6 Hardback 978 1 85043 805 2 Hardback 1 85043 806 4 Paperback 978 1 85043 806 9 Paperback A full CIP record for this book is available from the British Library A full CIP record for this book is available from the Library of Congress Library of Congress catalog card: available Typeset in Adobe Garamond by Steve Tribe, Andover Printed and bound in Great Britain by MPG Books Ltd, Bodmin Contents Acknowledgements 1. vii Waking into Dream: Competence Cascades, Thick Texts and the Universalization of the Geek Aesthetic 1 2."[Kaveney, Roz *From Alien to The Matrix: Reading Science Fiction Film*. I. B. Tauris, 2005.]

11. "176 7 Ghost Story , ISBN 0-8047-4100-X (cloth: alk. paper) 8 The Jew, Frontally and in Profile ISBN 0-8°47-4101-8 (pbk, : alk. paper) I. Icons, Byzantine. 2. Semiotics. I. Title. II. Series. I N8187·5·M65132004 306·4'7-DC22 2004000088 Original Printing 2005 Last figure below indicates year of this printing: 14 13 12 II 10 09 08 07 06 05 Extracts from the Iconoclast Horos ofHieria I Extracts from the Antirrhetics, by Nikephoros, Patriarch ofConstantinople I Notes I I I L Bibliography 227 259 Translator's Note A word needs to be said about the term imaginary as it appears in the title of this work and then periodically throughout the book."[Mondzain, Marie-Jose *Image, Icon, Economy: The Byzantine Origins of the Contemporary Imaginary (Cultural Memory in the Present)*. 2004.]

12. "But in using a word, a letter, a sound, OM, one cannot put a sound to soundlessness, or name the unnameable. The silence of the preformation expressed in and through language, cannot be expressed by language. But language can be used to convey what it cannot say – by its interstices, by its emptiness and lapses, by the latticework of words, syntax, sound and meanings. The modulations of pitch and volume delineate the form precisely by not filling in the spaces between the lines. But it is a grave mistake to mistake the lines for the pattern, or the pattern for that which it is patterning."[Laing, R. D. *The Politics of Experience and the Bird of Paradise*. Penguin Group, 2009.]

13. "  Fig. 3. After [Alberti 2004a: 70, fig. 14]  Note how we use the terms ‘true circle’ and ‘circle in perspective’ in the discussion  above. In Elements of Painting Alberti apparently felt the need to define different  adjectives to distinguish between objects seen straight on and objects seen at a tilt, and  hence the definitions for concentric in D. 1 and comminuted in D. 2, respectively. One can  relate Alberti’s use of ‘concentric’ to the standard modern usage (having a common centre,  having a common axis) by realizing that, in order to view the true shape of an area, one’s  eye must be centred on the area, i. e. , the eye must be positioned on the axis passing  through the centre of the area and perpendicular to it. (This is easiest to visualize with an  area that has an obvious centre, such as a circle, square, regular polygon, etc. ) As for the  second term, ‘comminuted’ is roughly synonymous with the modern term ‘foreshortened’,  "[INPUT: Williams et al. - 2010 - The Mathematical Works of Leon Battista Alberti.pdf]

14. "G. W. Knight also joins this quest. Other rigorous escape routes, that lead through impressionism beyond it, make Shakespeare’s language the main character of his plays, the everything and nothing. Empson’s colloquial fracturing of Shakespeare’s text, from Seven Types through Complex Words, as well as Leavis’s emphasis on the “heuristico-creative quality of the diction” avoid, on the whole, totalizing structures. Rigor consists in having the local reading undo an established symmetry."[Hartman, Geoffrey H., and Patricia A Parker *Shakespeare and the Question of Theory*. New edition. 1986.]

15. "It is not a concept. Indeed, it is not even a word. In an essay on 'Differance', Derrida demonstrates that the term he has invented on the basis of the French homonym is also an instance of deconstruction, and a kind of ironic tribute to Saussure. It is impossible in speech, he reiterates, to use the term without explicitly invoking the spelling. You cannot, he insists, hear the difference between 'difference' and 'differance' (or difference and 83 differance). The only way to make the distinction evident in speech is to say 'differance (with an a)'."[Belsey, Catherine *Poststructuralism: a very short introduction*. Oxford University Press, 2002.]