Created: 2025-12-27 14:37:11
Origin: searched
Selected: A deadbolt turned, foot-steps faded; silence fell.[Praeger, Dave, and Paul Provenza *Poop Culture: How America Is Shaped by Its Grossest National Product*. Feral House, 2007.]

--- Context List ---
01. "How dull, in contrast, are intact stairs who stand with ease, paying no attention to the perfect state of their matter. Such stairs rise despite their steps. The function transcends the material. The material is instrumental to an overriding activity that pursues its goal without noticeable difficulty. A flight of stairs is but of fleeting interest, unless it is a new and remarkable form."[Ginsberg, Robert *The Aesthetics of Ruins: Illustrated by the Author*. Rodopi, 2004.]

02. "The elevated moving stairs and exciting lifts create a new art form (Figures 3. 18a and 3. 18b). The success rests upon the innate curiosity of people to ascend and move to brighter elements in the interior. Vertigo is combated by tinted glass balustrades, ledges and high-level handrailing. 3. 2 Accommodation stairs Accommodation stairs are de®ned as additional or amenity stairs in excess of means of escape provisions."[Blanc, Sylvia, and Alan Blanc *Stairs, Second Edition*. Architectural Press, 2001.]

03. "The likelihood of the agents to wait in a queue is determined by their patience coefficient. The model permits to represent the interactions between horizontal and vertical components. Stairs in STEPS There are two different methods to simulate stairs in STEPS. A possible method is the use of the stair menu (see Fig. 4. 24). This menu permits to define the geometric characteristics of the stairs (e. g. , width, height, handrails, walking side, etc."[Ronchi, Enrico, and Daniel Nilsson (auth.) *Assessment of Total Evacuation Systems for Tall Buildings*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2014.]

04. "Milke, Study of Movement Speeds Down Stairs, SpringerBriefs in Fire, DOI 10. 1007/978-1-4614-3973-8_4, © The Author(s) 2013 29 30 4 Summary References Hoskins BL (2011) The effects of interactions and individual characteristics on egress down stairs."[Hoskins, Bryan L., and James A. Milke (auth.) *Study of Movement Speeds Down Stairs*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2013.]

05. ". Flight ± the section of a ramp or stair running between landings with a continuous slope or series of steps. . Ramp ± a slope which is steeper than 1 in 20 intended to enable pedestrians or wheelchair users to get from one ¯oor level to another. . Stair ± steps and landings designed to enable pedestrians to get to different levels. . Private stairs ± stairs in or serving only one dwelling."[Blanc, Sylvia, and Alan Blanc *Stairs, Second Edition*. Architectural Press, 2001.]

06. "Even for buildings less than 11 stories, occupants located closer to the stair may travel further in the stair than outside of it. Furthermore, because the stair shaft is required to be fire-rated and means of egress cannot have occupants move to a less safe location (NFPA 2009), the stair tends to be one of the last components in many complex egress systems."[Hoskins, Bryan L., and James A. Milke (auth.) *Study of Movement Speeds Down Stairs*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2013.]

07. "A few studies were conducted in laboratory settings on specially constructed stair sections where the geometries and stair angle could be varied systematically. Templer himself conducted several of these studies, including some at NBS. Most of the studies reviewed concluded that the measure of Total Energy Cost per Meter Rise is a useful metric for the evaluation of stair design for normal use and comfort; however stair safety is more closely related to the likelihood of missteps which is a function of how the stair relates to the human gait."[Bukowski, Richard W. *Emergency Egress From Buildings*. National Institute of Standards and Technology, 2009.]

08. "The so-called 7/11 stair geometry commonly required in US codes meets the relation 2R+G=635. Templer 15 summarizes a number of research studies of stair geometry and safety. Many such studies were conducted by observing people moving up or down stairs in buildings. Observations in subway or train stations at rush hours provided data for higher population densities."[Bukowski, Richard W. *Emergency Egress From Buildings*. National Institute of Standards and Technology, 2009.]

09. "STAIR PAGE 291 Friedrich Mielke Treppen in Nürnberg Schriften zur internationalen Treppenforschung Band XV PAGE 292 STAIR 23. 2008  Man and stairs STAIR PAGE 293 Friedrich Mielke Mensch und Treppe Schriften zur internationalen Treppenforschung Band XVI PAGE 294 STAIR “how do people walk on stairs?" For the study of human behavior on  stairs, both as a whole and individually,  three different methods may be  applied: 1. A laboratory experiment,  with a programmed observation  of people walking on stairs 2. A covert observation of random  people walking on stairs 3. The notation of stepping paths  on worn stairs (Steigespuren) "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

10. "These constraints set out minimum and maximum dimensions for the treads and risers and minimum widths for the stairs and landings. They set an upper limit on the number of risers between landings and define the loads for which the stairs and handrails are to be designed. The constraints on stair geometry vary according to the use of the stair. Private stairs used only for access and maintenance are the least constrained, while escape stairs from places of public assembly are the most constrained."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

11. "The flows through stairs are imposed by the user in relation to the admitted flows through the stairs, i. e. imposing the capacity of the stairs and the speeds of the occupants. Also in this case, the default setting employed by the model for stairs is the one provided by NFPA 130, i. e. , the values for a ramp slope > or < 4 % up and down. Model users can also modify this default setting with the desired flow through stairs."[Ronchi, Enrico, and Daniel Nilsson (auth.) *Assessment of Total Evacuation Systems for Tall Buildings*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2014.]

12. "Stairs Semicircular stairs nestled between walls of foundation skirting is an excellent feature for distinguishing a fairly undistinguished deck. This small, gray dining deck also features natural wood railings with glass inserts, but it’s the stairs that set a truly sophisticated tone. This is why choosing stair style is always a part of a good deck design—they should never be an afterthought Stair configuration goes far in determining how the deck is perceived."[Peterson, Chris *Deck ideas you can use: creative deck designs for every home & yard*. Minneapolis, Minn: Creative Publishing international, 2011.]

13. "It is important to consider all aspects of a stair and not derive a date from a single element. For example, at Clare College, Cambridge stairs E (1638–1642) and F & G (1669–1676) have identical strings, while the newel post mouldings of the Perne Library stair (Peterhouse College, 1590s) and Clare stairs A and E (1638–1642) are also identical. Yet in each case the other features are different and point to the true date."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

14. "34, para. 6, sent. 2 of the MBO specifies that stairs must be fitted with handrails on both sides and intermediate handrails where this is necessary for safety reasons. However, some federal state building regulations stipulate this for stairs in buildings with more than two dwellings reached via stairs. If stepless access (i. e. ramp or lift) to these dwellings is not possible, the use of the stairs by older occupants should be made safer and more comfortable by providing a handrail on both sides."[Heiss, Oliver *Barrier-Free Design*. Birkhäuser Architecture, 2010.]

15. "Truncating spiral stair with  a steadily reducing width a  stair 'eye' or central void,  decreasing in diameter  towards the top. Truncating spiral stair with  a steadily reducing width  towards the top, whilst  maintaining a constant  diameter of the stair 'eye'  or central void. Different stair towers  in plan. Imperial staircase: One  central access flight and  two diverging parallel  flights of stairs, connected  by a platform landing. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

16. "Stairs, Newel Posts Balusters Stair Railing. STAIRS, NEWEL POSTS, BALUSTERS, STAIR RAILING, ETC. Fig. 1182 Fig. 1183 Fig. 1184 Fig. 1185 Fig. 1186 Fig. 1187 Fig. 1188 Fig. 1189 DIRECTIONS NECESSARY FOR ORDERING STAIRS AND STAIR RAILING. When a flight of stairs is wanted, we should know the height of story from floor to floor, width of joists in second story, width and run of stairs, the size of cylinder, style of base used in the hall, with rough sketch showing about the shape of stairs wanted."[Blumer, Kuhn Stair Co. *Victorian Woodturnings and Woodwork*. Dover Publications, 2012.]

17. "Foot of stairs. 2. Balcony."[Contet, Frédéric *Masterpieces of Eighteenth-Century French Ironwork: With Over 300 Illustrations*. Dover Publications, 2004.]

18. "NEWEL The post, generally square in section, which receives the balustrade hand-rail at a change of direction of a stair or landing; the central post or pillar of a spiral stair, often consisting of a series of drums carved integrally with the stair treads themselves."[Chitham, Robert *The Classical Orders of Architecture,*. 2nd ed. Architectural Press, 2005.]

19. " Bibliographical Note This Dover edition, first published in 2006, contains a facsimile of the Blumer & Kuhn Stair Co. catalog of Stairs, Stair Railing, Balusters, Newel Posts, Mantels, Pew Ends, etc. , originally published by Rand, McNally & Company, Chicago, in 1893. Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Prblication Data Victorian woodturnings and woodwork / Blumer & Kuhn Stair Co. p. cm."[Blumer, Kuhn Stair Co. *Victorian Woodturnings and Woodwork*. Dover Publications, 2012.]

20. "3. Balcony and spike clusters, 53 Rue Hugerie. Toulouse. 2. Spike cluters executed by Joseph Bosc—from the Cours Dillon, but now in the garden of the St-Raymond collegiate church. Compiègne Palace. Overall views of the grand staircase and the Apollo staircase. Compiègne Palace. Grand staircase: foot of the stairs and detail. Compiègne Palace. Apollo staircase: foot of the stairs and detail."[Contet, Frédéric *Masterpieces of Eighteenth-Century French Ironwork: With Over 300 Illustrations*. Dover Publications, 2004.]

21. "A deadbolt turned, foot-steps faded; silence fell."[Praeger, Dave, and Paul Provenza *Poop Culture: How America Is Shaped by Its Grossest National Product*. Feral House, 2007.]