Created: 2025-11-14 23:38:11
Origin: searched
Selected: And again, while James saw it as a process of consciousness itself, fans indicated that fandom plays an important role. In particular, fandom shapes and maintains a continuous self by acting as a map or overlay with which to mark the passage of time and organize one's perception of oneself in it. This process is especially evident in both the activities of collecting and listening. I have already mentioned that one prominent type of collecting among fans is based on the fetish.[Cavicchi, Daniel *Tramps Like Us: Music and Meaning among Springsteen Fans*. 1998.]

--- Context List ---
01. "A hundred years ago, Flaubert1 in a letter to his mistress made the following remark: Comme l’on serait savant si l’on connaissait bien seulement cinq à six livres: “What a scholar one might be if one knew well only some half a dozen books. ” In reading, one should notice and fondle details. There is nothing wrong about the moonshine of generalization when it comes after the sunny trifles of the book have been lovingly collected. If one begins with a ready-made generalization, one begins at the wrong end and travels away from the book before one has started to understand it."[Goldthwaite, Melissa A., Joseph Bizup, John Brereton, Anne Fernald, and Linda Peterson *The Norton Reader: An Anthology of Nonfiction*. 14th edition. W. W. Norton & Company, 2015.]

02. "And again, while James saw it as a process of consciousness itself, fans indicated that fandom plays an important role. In particular, fandom shapes and maintains a continuous self by acting as a map or overlay with which to mark the passage of time and organize one's perception of oneself in it. This process is especially evident in both the activities of collecting and listening. I have already mentioned that one prominent type of collecting among fans is based on the fetish."[Cavicchi, Daniel *Tramps Like Us: Music and Meaning among Springsteen Fans*. 1998.]

03. "For example, it permits a theory that treats two representations as distinct in contents simply because they have different histories. Our roster of current approaches to the problem of content determination, in fact, includes two such TCDs: Devitt's causal historical approach and Millikan's biological function approach. Naturalism also permits a theory that treats two representations as content-distinct simply because they belong to individuals who live in different language communities."[Von Eckardt, Barbara *What is cognitive science?*. MIT Press, 1995.]

04. "Obviously, this inference is absurd for a number of reasons. I want to focus here on a rather subtle one, namely, that the same image relates to the two objects it supposedly represents in different ways. When we use the above image as a representation of a rabbit, we make certain kinds of idealisation."[Hsiang-Ke Chao, Szu-Ting Chen, and Roberta L. Millstein *Mechanism and Causality in Biology and Economics*. Springer Netherlands : Imprint : Springer, 2013.]

05. "Suppose he has another conception, linked to Rep('orme') (French for 'elm'), which happens to contain all the same descriptive information as his conception of beech, and even contains a qualitatively identical perceptual prototype (cf. the situation described in Putnam 1981, pp. 18-19; but where Putnam puts a different gloss on it). Not only is it the case that Hilaire has access to two distinct public concepts, but he also has in his head two distinct conceptions linked to different Reps. The two conceptions stay separate because Hilaire takes 'hetre' and 'orme' to be names of different kinds of trees."[Preston, John *Thought and Language (Royal Institute of Philosophy Supplements; 42)*. Cambridge University Press, 1997.]

06. "We focus on the two models that I have worked on, which happen to be the two most fully developed ones at the time, the SKY model (Cohen 1995; Wainscoat et al. 1992) and the Besançon model (Robin and Crézé 1986; Robin et al. 2003). Three features of these models are directly relevant to our epistemological concern. First, the two models have roughly the same intended content (i. e. , again following Kitcher’s [2001, ch. 5] use of the terminology in the case of maps, the two models are supposed to represent the same type of entities and relations)."[Ruphy, Stephanie *Scientific Pluralism Reconsidered: A New Approach to the (Dis)unity of Science*. University of Pittsburgh Press, 2017.]

07. "The first statement of it was by Loar (1988). Loar introduced a distinction between social contents, which are individuated in line with the semantics of the subject's public language, and psychological contents, individuated in accordance with the subject's personal psychological profile. In certain cases, the two modes of individuation pull apart. According to Loar, Burge's characters present us with a choice between these two modes of individuation."[Preston, John *Thought and Language (Royal Institute of Philosophy Supplements; 42)*. Cambridge University Press, 1997.]

08. "But what if MRS has two kinds of content, as Fodor (1987) suggests: one whose ground respects the constraint and one whose ground does not respect the constraint?After all, Methodological Individualism* seems to make the most sense when applied to mental representations being invoked in causal explanations. But we might want to appeal to the contents of mental representations for other reasons. In any case, if there are these two kinds of content, then the first kind (Fodor's ''narrow content") can be determined in a way that makes it fully significant, and the second kind ("broad content") can be determined in a way that allows for the representation of natural-kind-term meaning. 25 And, as a consequence, we will get everything we want."[Von Eckardt, Barbara *What is cognitive science?*. MIT Press, 1995.]

09. "This would be a viable interpretation only if Plato meant to use only one method here or thought that there was only one method. I have on the contrary shown that Socrates requires both the algorithmic method as well as the visual geometric method in order to make the full use of the dialectic towards recollection."[Magnani, Lorenzo *Model-based reasoning in science and technology : theoretical and cognitive issues*. Springer, 2013.]

10. "One might disambiguate the above situation by making the representation of the hate relation more specific. That is, one might introduce one node for Art-subject-hates-Ike-object, one node for Art-subject-hates-Neal-object, one node for Fred-subject-hates-Ike-object, and one node for Fred-subject-hates-Neal-object. Then when one wanted to represent that Art hates Ike and Fred hates Neal, one would activate only the first and the fourth of these nodes rather than the second and the third. But, as Fodor and Pylyshyn (1988, p. 24) so aptly put it, this proposal "requires rather a lot of microfeatures [i. e."[Von Eckardt, Barbara *What is cognitive science?*. MIT Press, 1995.]

11. "But the class of relations of resemblance between relations of resemblance between rednesses and the paradigm redness also has a special unity. In what does that consist?And so on, ad infinitum. It would I suppose be possible for the abstract particularist to admit a regress but ask for some evidence that it is infinite. It will not be infinite unless the number of rednesses is also infinite. For the question to arise as to what constitutes the unity of the class of first-order relations of resemblance between rednesses and a paradigm redness, there must be at least two such first-order relations."[Robinson, Howard *Objections to Physicalism*. 1993.]

12. "Probably the easiest way to understand this abstract concept is by way of an analogy: ﬁlm directors do the same thing for movies. Ron Howard and the Coen Brothers might take the same script and make radically different movies, because their perspectives are so different. Similarly, the same song in the hands of two different record producers might come out sounding totally different."[J., Summers *Making and Marketing Music: The Musician's Guide to Financing, Distributuing and Promoting Albums*. 2004.]

13. "It is a delicate process to establish a perceptual object or category, as Lakoff (1987) demonstrates in a perspective he calls ‘experiential cognitive semantics,’ which he bases on the internal realism described by Hilary Putnam (1992). I will analyse this perspective more thoroughly later. The opposition between the two paradigms has another important aspect."[Brier, Soren *Cybersemiotics: Why Information Is Not Enough!*. 2nd. University of Toronto Press, 2008.]

14. "Of course, as you have guessed, the good reader is G o o d Re a d e r s and G ood Wri t ers 885 one who has imagination, memory, a dictionary, and some artistic sense—which sense I propose to develop in myself and in others whenever I have the chance. Incidentally, I use the word reader very loosely. Curiously enough, one cannot read a book: one can only reread it. A good reader, a major reader, an active and creative reader is a rereader. And I shall tell you why. When we read a book for the first time the very process of laboriously moving our eyes from left to right, line after line, page after page, this complicated physical work upon the book, the very process of learning in terms of space and time what the book is about, this stands between us and artistic appreciation."[Goldthwaite, Melissa A., Joseph Bizup, John Brereton, Anne Fernald, and Linda Peterson *The Norton Reader: An Anthology of Nonfiction*. 14th edition. W. W. Norton & Company, 2015.]

15. "Bay side and ocean side: two very different experiences for me from the very beginning. Later on, rereading Proust, I would almost think of them as Marcel had thought of two paths he'd taken as a child in Combray. Not that these cotes were socially distinct as the Guermantes Way had been from Swann's Way. No, rather I thought of them as being distinctive in two main ways, the first atmospheric, the second emotional. The bay side was fragrant, heavily wooded, nocturnal, obscure, somewhat bewildering, a place filled with unclarities of location, not to mention relationship."[Picano, Felice *A House on the Ocean, a House on the Bay (a memoir)*. Faber & Faber, 1998.]