Created: 2025-12-27 22:40:43
Origin: suggested
Selected: Body piercing is not valued only for its deeper meanings. Many people simply like the way it looks. Some people like it so much that they suffer through multiple piercings for the sheer pleasure of beautifying themselves. In these cases, piercing can be seen as an art form. Increasingly accepted in modern times, body piercing today has become a popular type of private, public, and even performance-based art.[Hirschmann, Kris *Tattoos, Body Piercings, and Art*. ReferencePoint Press, 2013.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Body piercing is not valued only for its deeper meanings. Many people simply like the way it looks. Some people like it so much that they suffer through multiple piercings for the sheer pleasure of beautifying themselves. In these cases, piercing can be seen as an art form. Increasingly accepted in modern times, body piercing today has become a popular type of private, public, and even performance-based art."[Hirschmann, Kris *Tattoos, Body Piercings, and Art*. ReferencePoint Press, 2013.]

02. "However, tattooing’s ability to shock, inflame, or upset more conventional members of society decreased as more people received tattoos, the artistic quality of the work available improved, and heavily tattooed people became increasingly visible. Piercing, scarification, and other dramatic and less popular forms of permanent body modification have provided an outlet for those who wish to arouse “conspicuous outrage. ” So-called “radical” piercing is a shifting category, largely because “radical” is a relative term."[Sanders, Clinton, and D Angus Vail *Customizing the Body: The Art and Culture of Tattooing*. Revised. Temple University Press, 2008.]

03. "and continues to be, primarily a mechanism for demonstrating one's disaffection from the mainstream. Tattooing, body piercing and. to a lesser degree. body sculpting are employed to proclaim publicly one's special attachment to deviant groups, certain activities, selfconcepts. or primary associates. This connection to unconventionality is the key to understanding the organization of and change within the social world surrounding contemporary tattooing in the United States."[Sanders, Clinton, and D Angus Vail *Customizing the Body: The Art and Culture of Tattooing*. Revised. Temple University Press, 2008.]

04. "By presenting tattoos in a format long associated with fine art, books give tattoos a sheen of respectability. They also make them accessible to anyone, anywhere, anytime. Today no one needs to enter a studio to see tattoo art on display. 55 Chapter Five The Art of Body Piercing Like tattoo, body piercing is a technique used to modify the human body. This practice has existed in cultures all around the world for thousands of years. During this time, body piercing has had many meanings. It has been used for religious reasons, for identification, for spiritual protection, and much more."[Hirschmann, Kris *Tattoos, Body Piercings, and Art*. ReferencePoint Press, 2013.]

05. "xii ACKNOWLEDGMENTS ANCIENT INK Introduction Aaron Deter-Wolf and Lars Krutak T he desire to alter, decorate, and adorn the human body is a cultural universal. While specific forms of body decoration and the underlying motivations vary according to region, culture, and era, human societies from the past and present have engaged in practices designed to enhance their natural appearance. Tattooing—the process of inserting pigment into the skin to create permanent designs and patterns—as a form of body decoration has been practiced by cultures around the globe and throughout human history."[Krutak, Lars, and Aaron Deter-Wolf *Ancient Ink: The Archaeology of Tattooing*. Hardcover. University of Washington Press, 2017.]

06. "It is clear that many of the spiritual and therapeutic uses of tattooing, piercing, and other practices that the body modification community later popularized actually originated much earlier within this subculture. See also: Body Piercing; Body Play; Musafar, Fakir; Pain; Suspensions; Ward, Jim Further Reading: Brame, Gloria William, and Jon Jacobs. Different Loving: An Exploration of the World of Sexual Dominance and Submission. New York: Villard Books, 1993; Thompson, Mark. Leatherfolk: Radical Sex, People, Politics, and Practice."[DeMello, Margo *Encyclopedia of Body Adornment*. Greenwood, 2007.]

07. "Body piercing and tattooing, having regained great popularity today, are historically related to cranial deformation, and one can generally assume that many individuals that had elongated or otherwise deformed crania also had various tattoos and body piercings, including ear, nose and lip rings. The subject of tattooing is beyond the scope of this book, but it was known to have been practiced by a wide array of peoples, from Egyptian and Arabian Bedouins to Pacific Islanders, Celtic tribes and the Olmecs, among others."[Childress, David Hatcher *The Enigma of Cranial Deformation: Elongated Skulls of the Ancients*. Original retail. Adventures Unlimited Press, 2013.]

08. "Body adornment refers to the practice of physically enhancing the body by styling and decorating the hair, painting and embellishing the fingernails, wearing makeup, painting the body, wearing jewelry, and the use of clothing. Body adornments are by definition temporary. Body modification, on the other hand, refers to the physical alteration of the body through the use of surgery, tattooing, piercing, scarification, branding, genital mutilation, implants, and other practices. Body modifications can be permanent or temporary, although most are permanent and alter the body forever."[DeMello, Margo *Encyclopedia of Body Adornment*. Greenwood, 2007.]

09. "Many of these accounts are sensational and are clearly written with the intent of emphasizing the “otherness” of non-Western societies (Schildkrout 2004:327). However, some of these documents contain useful descriptions and illustrations of body decoration that can be extracted from their ethnocentric context. Modern anthropological studies of body decoration are more reliable. Until the 1990s, much of the scholarship on tattooing focused on the role of body decoration as a marker of gender, age, and status."[Deter-Wolf, Aaron *Drawing with great needles : ancient tattoo traditions of North America*. Austin, North America.: University of Texas Press, 2013.]

10. "In contemporary Fiji the practice of tattooing has changed, but the focus on the body’s social meanings continues. Observing that in Nahigatoka Fijians are preoccupied with commenting on other people ’s bodily shapes, Becker suggests, “Body morphology is a primary lexicon of social processes, not a means of self-representation; it is a matter of social, not personal, concern. ”51 Becker’s assessment founds her study of the way Fijian culture shapes the experiences and meanings of embodiment; it also returns us to the insight that tattooing, as a way of making the body legible in culture, has meanings that are as much social as personal."[Ellis, Juniper *Tattooing the World: Pacific Designs in Print and Skin*. Columbia University Press, 2008.]

11. "Therefore, the decision of an individual to augment the natural body through temporary or permanent decoration reveals precise information regarding that person’s social role, whether actual or conceptualized. Body decoration also reflects information on the society the individual inhabits. Specific colors, patterns, ornamental items, and the manner and timing with which these materials are applied to the body are all part of a culturally defined communication code (Brain 1979; Ebin 1979). In this regard, body decoration reflects overall social, religious, and political systems, as well as an individual’s place within these systems."[Deter-Wolf, Aaron *Drawing with great needles : ancient tattoo traditions of North America*. Austin, North America.: University of Texas Press, 2013.]

12. "A graphic design student in Tasmania based her college thesis on Body Type, which was itself published in a handsome volume. People sent me photos of their typographic tattoos; in fact, many of those pictured in this new volume said their tattoos were directly inspired by Body Type. Among my favorite e-mails were touching thank-you messages from people whose tattoos had appeared in Body Type, saying that, because of the context of my book, and the presentation of their tattoos, their families finally “understood” and appreciated the motivation and commitment represented by their tattoos."[Saltz, Ina *Body Type 2: More Typographic Tattoos*. Abrams Image, 2010.]

13. "Among the many different cultures living on the islands, body decoration is very important to social and religious practices. Body painting is a temporary method of adorning the body. Much as westerners wear dress clothes to weddings, the peoples of Oceania paint their bodies for rituals and festive occasions. Other body markings are permanent, however. Scarification and tattooing have been practiced among many of the peoples of Oceania for generations."[Pendergast, Sara, Tom Pendergast, and Sarah Hermsen *Fashion, costume, and culture: clothing, headwear, body decorations, and footwear through the ages*. Detroit: UXL, 2003.]

14. "People have been known to have even their head tattooed. Getting a full-body tattoo can take as long as a year, with BODY DECORATIONS OF EARLY ASIAN CULTURES ■ 245 ■ ■ ■ TATTOOING one session per week. Modern inks allow for the introduction of even more color to these tattoos. Japanese designs, especially dragons, became popular in the West during the 1990s. FOR MORE INFORMATION Gröning, Karl. Body Decoration: A World Survey of Body Art. New York: Vendome Press, 1998. Hewitt, Kim. Mutilating the Body: Identity in Blood and Ink."[Pendergast, Sara, Tom Pendergast, and Sarah Hermsen *Fashion, costume, and culture: clothing, headwear, body decorations, and footwear through the ages*. Detroit: UXL, 2003.]

15. "Campbell, I. C. Island Kingdom: Tonga Ancient and Modern. Christchurch: Canterbury University Press, 1992. Caplan, Jane, ed. Written on the Body: The Tattoo in European and American History. Princeton, N. J. : Princeton University Press, 2000. Carkeek, Wakahuia. The Kapiti Coast: Maori History and Place Names. Wellington: Reed, 1966. Carroll, Lynne, and Roxanne Anderson. “Body Piercing, Tattooing, Self-Esteem, and Body Investment in Adolescent Girls. ” Adolescence 37 (2002): 627–37. Cassuto, Leonard. “‘What an object he would have made of me!’: Tattooing and the Racial Freak in Melville’s Typee. ” Freakery: Cultural Spectacles of the Extraordinary b i b l i o g r a p h y 247 Body."[Ellis, Juniper *Tattooing the World: Pacific Designs in Print and Skin*. Columbia University Press, 2008.]

16. "Therefore, it seems justified to analyze the decoration of these figurines as a proxy for human body treatment. The transferability of ornamental motifs and compositions between material culture and tattoo designs is known from ethnographic documents and is considered a potential correlate for temporary and permanent prehistoric body art (Streit 1935:681). Nevertheless, this transferability of patterns and designs also makes it difficult to determine whether ornamentation depicted on figurines represents textile patterns or body art forms, since costume design may also be decorated with linear ornamentation (e. g. , Lüning 2005)."[Krutak, Lars, and Aaron Deter-Wolf *Ancient Ink: The Archaeology of Tattooing*. Hardcover. University of Washington Press, 2017.]

17. "Since the 1990s, we have been witnessing a dramatic return to the body and body art practices. These works, Jones states, “acknowledge the deep implications of the politics of representation in relation to the embodied subject” (1998, 198). In these “1990s extensions”18 of the body, the self is no longer explored mainly in relation to culture and context (constructivism). Now, through the new possibilities of the technologies of the body, particularly those enhanced by new media, the body is under “technophenomenological” examination, to quote Jones once more: “The body/self is technophenomenological: fully mediated through the vicissitudes of bio- and communications technologies, and fully engaged with the social (what Merleau-Ponty called ‘enworlded’)."[Flanagan, Mary, and Austin Booth *Re:skin*. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press, 2006.]

18. "In the second half of the eighteenth century, ownership of one’s body shifted. Political thinkers formulated the concept of autonomy over one’s own body. The individual gained responsibility and possession of his (women were still civilly dead for most purposes) own body and could be said to “have” a body in the modern sense. The rise of the possessive individual brought increased freedom to make choices, which in turn affected the aesthetics of consumption."[Ott, Katherine, David Serlin, and Stephen Mihm *Artificial Parts, Practical Lives: Modern Histories of Prosthetics*. NYU Press, 2002.]

19. "This is especially true of modern times when Puritanical disregard for the body has created a state of affairs where it is sometimes difficult to form intelligent ideas of the human body except from statues and pictures. Often, nobility of mind and body are closely connected, and since the noblest people are rarely found among professional models; for this reason bodies are rarely represented."[Von Mach, Edmund, and Parkstone Press *Greek Sculpture its Spirit and its Principles*. Parkstone Press, 2006.]

20. "It seems that the issue of death, whether human or animal, cast into symbolic tattooed relief  important cultural values by which circumpolar peoples lived their lives and evaluated their  experiences. But, and for the sake of traveling to a higher level, tattoos also recalled an ancestral  presence and could be understood to function as the conduit for a "visiting” spiritual entity, coming  from the different temporal dimensions into the contemporary world. For example, in many  shamanistic performances in the Arctic, the human body was altered (via masking, body painting,  vestments, or tattoo) to facilitate the entry of a "spirit  helper. ” This is not entirely surprising since tattoos and  other forms of adornment acted as magnets attracting a  spiritual force — one that was channeled through the  ceremonial attire and into the body.  "[INPUT: Tattoo history - a source book - an anthology of historical -- edited and introduced by Steve Gilbert with the -- New York, Berkeley, CA, New York -- 9781890451066 -- 4e5326b8cc15038fb0b97dd1128d1dfc -- Anna’s Archive.pdf]

21. "Everyday expressions also suggest homologies between the naked body and items of clothing (e. g. the term “sleeve” for a full-length arm tattoo). There may be, perhaps, a bodily experience that accompanies the paradoxical idea of the naked body as clothed. Can one sometimes wear one’s nakedness 53 Nudity: A Cultural Anatomy like clothes?Although many of the nudists I interviewed would not find the concept of the costume of nudity appealing, so attached are they to the idea of nakedness as a total shedding, some of the people I interviewed who were involved in performance were quite comfortable with this idea."[Barcan, Ruth *Nudity: A Cultural Anatomy*. Berg Publishers, 2004.]

22. "Death chic thus extends familiar cultural norms that essentialize difference by rendering the female body a diseased object. 17 For all their resistant intentions, goth men who aspire to the look join women in reproducing this fetishized femininity. Further, death chic’s fetishization of a skinny, feminine corporeality is articulated to other gothic stylistic practices that evince a hatred of the body. Goth’s abject body is often adorned with much care and precision, as if it needs to be either elaborately erased in frilly Victorian clothing, or exquisitely prodded, poked, pierced, marked, and bled in ritual selfmortiﬁcation. To goths, the ability to mortify or modify one’s body in gothic performance seems empowering because they are able to become beauty in ways that do not depend on the body."[Goodlad, Lauren M. E., and Michael Bibby (eds.) *Goth: Undead Subculture*. Duke University Press, 2007.]

23. "He incorporated these body markings into a collection entitled Twelve Black Girls (1976), which reinforced the notion that his work extended beyond an exclusively Oriental style. Again in 1989/90, he created a series of tattoo-like body stocking garments that were worn close to the body by using a stretch fabric. According to Holborn, ‘This sense of design provided a window on world culture with a modern look embracing ethnic beauty’ (1995: 42). This globalisation of culture is inherent to postmodernist design where appropriation and synthesis of both Western and non-Western elements occur."[English, Bonnie *Japanese Fashion Designers: The Work and Influence of Issey Miyake, Yohji Yamamoto and Rei Kawakubo*. Bloomsbury Academic, 2011.]

24. "Reminders of such variant fashion ideals may be seen in the extremely elongated shapes current in the Gothic period, the armour-like, very ﬂat, upper-body vestments seen at the Elizabethan court, hoop-skirts, crinolines, or the short, pufﬁlyupholstered pants worn by sixteenth century male nobility. Such body impositions also celebrated a brief, glamorous comeback during the New Look of the 1950s. This obviously non-natural remodeling of the body by means of clothes and the invention of another silhouette incorporating the body as carrier, has not altogether disappeared from the ﬁeld of fashion."[Vinken, Barbara *Fashion Zeitgeist: Trends and Cycles in the Fashion System*. 2005.]

25. "Each print offers a different understanding or take on the body. Some are grounded in the physical and social aspects of humanity, while others present the body as a site for fantastic imagination and performance. Still others reference the printed page as a “body. ” Whether fish, fowl, or human, the body as seen in these prints continues to intrigue us across the centuries and show that even though times change, people and their concerns do not."[Stewart, Alison G. *Strange Bodies: Hybrid, Text, and the Human Form. Prints from the Sheldon Museum of Art*. Lincoln, Nebraska: Zea Books, 2016.]