Created: 2025-12-19 14:05:47
Origin: suggested
Selected: Architectural practice revolves on the exchange of ideas among diverse stakeholders, requiring involvement in a multitude of complex processes and arrangements. Notably, emerging interactive and collective platforms in a digital ecosystem  have supported these collaborative processes, in terms of digital collaboration (Elia  et al. 2020), problem solving (Elia and Margherita 2018), and collective design  (Stelzle et al. 2017). They may appear to replicate face-to-face design processes. However, it’s important to note that traditional sketch activities and gestures don’t  function in the same way in the digital realm, especially across spaces (Lee and  Ostwald 2022).[INPUT: Lee et al. - 2024 - Multimodality in Architecture Collaboration, Technology and Education.pdf]

--- Context List ---
01. " Architectural practice revolves on the exchange of ideas among diverse stakeholders, requiring involvement in a multitude of complex processes and arrangements. Notably, emerging interactive and collective platforms in a digital ecosystem  have supported these collaborative processes, in terms of digital collaboration (Elia  et al. 2020), problem solving (Elia and Margherita 2018), and collective design  (Stelzle et al. 2017). They may appear to replicate face-to-face design processes. However, it’s important to note that traditional sketch activities and gestures don’t  function in the same way in the digital realm, especially across spaces (Lee and  Ostwald 2022)."[INPUT: Lee et al. - 2024 - Multimodality in Architecture Collaboration, Technology and Education.pdf]

02. "This chapter aims to qualitatively examine the collaborative processes of design,  development and communication between the two architectural offices. It argues that  understanding the collaborative processes utilised in this project not only contextualises the use of various analogue and digital communication tools but also provides a  structured framework that can guide designers through the creative problem-solving  journey. Additionally, this chapter expands our understanding of the ‘reflective practitioner’ model to include multi-practice teamwork and multi-lingual communication,  offering insights into what constitutes a contemporary hybrid and reflective practice.  "[INPUT: Lee et al. - 2024 - Multimodality in Architecture Collaboration, Technology and Education.pdf]

03. "In this context, design education should be grounded in digital design thinking,  which is “non-typological and non-deterministic in supporting and preferring the  discrete and differentiated over the generic and the typological” (Oxman 2006,  p. 262). Furthermore, the combined terminology of “digital” and “thinking” naturally evokes multimodality in the context of technology and cognition. That is, it not  only encompasses a wide range of technologies, including computers, smartphones,  software, and the internet, but also pertains to the cognitive processes that occur in  the human mind, including reasoning, problem-solving, decision-making, creativity,  and more. Furthermore, this intersection highlights the diverse ways in which digital  tools can support and shape human cognition, leading to a multimodal approach to  design thinking. As such, Part III of this book focuses on digital design thinking  processes in education settings. "[INPUT: Lee et al. - 2024 - Multimodality in Architecture Collaboration, Technology and Education.pdf]

04. "2011b for a review). While standard models are concerned with activities that (in theory) can be carried out without the need for social interaction or place-specific experience, such as “problem solving” and abstract “thinking,” situated approaches bring socially acquired musical experience to the forefront of the research agenda. Thus, they highlight two aspects that need to be considered in aesthetically informed approaches to design: the local resources for creative action and the mutual processes of adaptation that emerge through social interactions."[Zagalo, Nelson, and Pedro Branco (eds.) *Creativity in the Digital Age*. Springer-Verlag London, 2015.]

05. "A New Soft City is soft in all these ways at once: subject to physical evolution and reconfiguration; inclined to gradual change in its human communities and organizations; engaged to rapid evolution of its public spaces, taken as the aggregate or synthesis of physical and digital media of social and political processes bearing on urban life; and currently, we propose, capable of transformative positive change in the breadth, sophistication, and power of public participation in the processes of ideation and design development that form a crucial domain of public discourse about the form and purpose of future urban settlements, in large measure as future forms of present ones."[(auth.), Carl Skelton *Soft City Culture and Technology: The Betaville Project*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2014.]

06. "Social computing is an attempt to use these sorts of analytic techniques as a basis not just for analysis and critique but also for design. As with tangible computing, my aim is not to propose a new area of research, but rather to identify a particular attitude and program among ongoing research efforts. I have argued that embodiment is central to both of these programs. Tangible computing draws on embodiment by recognizing the physical embedding of action in the world, while social computing draws upon embodiment by recognizing its social embedding in systems of meaning."[Dourish, Paul *Where the Action Is: The Foundations of Embodied Interaction (Bradford Books)*. The MIT Press, 2001.]

07. "The Betaville project proposes and presents such a space: open enough, straightforward enough in its usability, and with the necessary functionalities to be able to support a new scale of collaborative public participation, particularly in the early phases of specification and conceptual design for public projects. Betaville draws on specific prior art and critiques within the disparate domains of art, software engineering, digital design, and urban planning politics and is motivated by an ambitious, rather than Utopian, idea of what new purpose-built tools may offer at the technical intersection of massively multiplayer online games, geodata, and distributed 3D authoring (i. e. , 3D model creation, not to be confused with authoring as creation of text documents) tools; the cultural intersection of public art, social sculpture, and experimental digital media; and the social intersection of distributed collaboration and participatory urban planning and design practices."[(auth.), Carl Skelton *Soft City Culture and Technology: The Betaville Project*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2014.]

08. "Ubiquitous music design decisions are materialized as technological prototypes that afford but do not enforce creative behavior. This proposal is rooted in the Brazilian dialogical education movement (Freire 1999; Lima et al. 2012). As we will see in the next section, relational properties result both from agent-object interactions and agent-agent (or social) interactions. When the social dynamic is nonhierarchical, creative products and processes may not necessarily fit within the division of labor traditionally applied in the industry: users may become cocreators."[Zagalo, Nelson, and Pedro Branco (eds.) *Creativity in the Digital Age*. Springer-Verlag London, 2015.]

09. "• Replanning required synchronized joint activity to consider all of the ramifications of a disrupting event or plan modification. • Shared sense making needed new forms of exchange of information and perspective to recognize when strategic adjustments were necessary. 6. INVENTING THE FUTURE OF COGNITION AT WORK Design changes cognition. By introducing artifacts that mediate information pick up, interaction, and goal-directed action, design influences both micro- and macro-cognition."[Schifferstein, Hendrik N.J., and Paul Hekkert (Eds.) *Product Experience*. 2013.]

10. "That is, nothing has yet been written concerning the pairing of the concepts of ‘representation’ and ‘presentation’ in relation to the image in Deleuze, yet this is crucial to an understanding of the nature of the image. The purpose of this chapter is to look at the role of the image, from a cognitive perspective, as an interaction between notions of ‘presentation’ and ‘representation’, and to use this distinction in order to begin to develop an understanding of how the image might work in art."[Uhlmann, Anthony *Samuel Beckett and the Philosophical Image*. 2007.]

11. "In terms of the directions explored in this chapter, the Locales Framework, first, takes the distinction between place and space and uses it to talk about the issues of the setting in which action unfolds; second, relates it to a specific set of theoretical insights into the organization of social action; and third, arranges this in such a way as to support the design of novel systems. The goal of the Locales Framework is not to present a theory of social action, but rather to package a set of sociological understandings so that they can be used to inform the analysis of working situations and the design of technologies to support cooperative work."[Dourish, Paul *Where the Action Is: The Foundations of Embodied Interaction (Bradford Books)*. The MIT Press, 2001.]

12. "The social dimension is, of necessity, limited within the scope of the first generation of development and test deployments: even a conventional public art program or urban design project workflow unfolds over numbers of years, and the large-scale projects can take decades to scope and build. For our purposes, the social level of the work has boiled down to two key questions. First, to demonstrate that a Betaville project undertaken from within the education/research sector can engage students in software and media development as a local social medium, and thereby in local urban design and development issues, or conversely in the development of new digital public spaces to support such activity; second, that the products of that engagement can augment the work of existing stakeholder groups, or combinations of them in the field."[(auth.), Carl Skelton *Soft City Culture and Technology: The Betaville Project*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2014.]

13. "In other words, rather than applying large-scale comparative studies indicating general cultural traits, everyday creativity may demand detailed micro-observations of creative activities in ecologically valid contexts. Ubiquitous music research may provide a contribution to interaction aesthetics by expanding the design goals to account for creative potentials (DiLiello and Houghton 2008). While existing approaches – synthesized in Redström (2007) – propose alternative forms of design and innovative material combinations to obtain new artifacts, ubiquitous music techniques target the increase of creative potentials."[Zagalo, Nelson, and Pedro Branco (eds.) *Creativity in the Digital Age*. Springer-Verlag London, 2015.]

14. "This is not a case. Architects and buildings did appear in much of the work I did in preparation for  this book, but their presence has been omitted from  the final composition. They acted almost as a sort  of cast, a scaffold to be removed after completion. I  wanted to foreground not the exemplar character  of specific architectures but rather the theoretical  milieu in which they could have been accommodated. In a way if the image I tried to speak of is the  paradox of an image without image, the architecture  I tried to foreground is an architecture without architecture."[INPUT: Villa - 2024 - Upon entropy architectonics of the image in the a.pdf]

15. "For supporting decision-making during earlier Chapter 1 The Interaction: a New Way of Designing 11 phases of the design process, this approach regards evolutionary virtual representations and simulations related to engineering studies. As one part of the overall objective, Interactive Design approach sustains collective engineering during preliminary stages of the process. From knowledge implicated in the project, it permits virtual exploration of solution spaces implemented from the simulation of cognitive operations."[Fischer, Xavier, and Daniel Coutellier *Research in Interactive Design: Volume 2*. 2007.]