Created: 2025-12-30 01:51:00
Origin: searched
Selected: The fact that the colour on the walls alters when a cloud passes over the sun and looks different throughout the day or even across the seasons is what makes the paint feel alive. It is this quality that gives an interior a unique sense of depth and atmosphere. Second, it is preferable to look at the colour in the correct light. If you are decorating a space used exclusively at night, such as a dining room, you may want to view the colour by candlelight. Third, it is often useful to see the colour in relation to the decorative scheme of an adjoining space – these subtle tones are best perceived in context rather than in isolation.[Studholme, Joa, and Charlotte Cosby *Farrow & Ball How to Decorate: Transform Your Home with Paint & Paper*. Mitchell Beazley, 2016.]

--- Context List ---
01. "The fact that the colour on the walls alters when a cloud passes over the sun and looks different throughout the day or even across the seasons is what makes the paint feel alive. It is this quality that gives an interior a unique sense of depth and atmosphere. Second, it is preferable to look at the colour in the correct light. If you are decorating a space used exclusively at night, such as a dining room, you may want to view the colour by candlelight. Third, it is often useful to see the colour in relation to the decorative scheme of an adjoining space – these subtle tones are best perceived in context rather than in isolation."[Studholme, Joa, and Charlotte Cosby *Farrow & Ball How to Decorate: Transform Your Home with Paint & Paper*. Mitchell Beazley, 2016.]

02. "Like pigments on canvas, the feeblest colors sent from the sky are visibly strengthened on barren white walls, turning some rooms violet and others yellow. One cannot fail to notice these subtle auras that dwell within empty space for a time, shifting in tone as the sun slips by. Mornings begin dim and blue, combed through with orange as day breaks, only to bleach a crisp white through the middle of day, at times burnished gold where sunlight reflects off a smooth pine floor, but always left soft around the edges by nuanced shadows."[Plummer, Henry *Stillness and Light: The Silent Eloquence of Shaker Architecture*. Indiana University Press, 2009.]

03. "Painting several areas versus just one will give you the truest representation, because while paint reacts one way to direct sunlight, it can look completely different in softer, diffused light. Live with the patches for a few days and watch how they change from morning to night. Quality paint will take on different hues at different times of day. working with (or without) light There are likely some rooms in your home that are blasted with daylight and others that rely solely on artificial light. Common knowledge would have it that dark rooms should be painted in light colors to counteract their natural dimness."[Mayhew, Elizabeth *Flip! for Decorating  A Page-by-Page, Piece-by-Piece, Room-by-Room Guide to Transforming Your Home*. Ballantine Books, 2009.]

04. "Remember that you will only see the true colour if you apply two coats of paint on your samples. Then look at how the colour changes at different times of the day – check them in the evening light as well as during the day to ensure you obtain your desired look. How a colour behaves in relation to other colours and in different light conditions is extremely complex and nothing beats seeing them all in situ. And the added bonus is that you will have all those iconic little pots to treasure. 92 WHERE TO START THIS PAGE Here, the Easy Neutrals are being sampled in a bright, undecorated space."[Studholme, Joa, and Charlotte Cosby *Farrow & Ball How to Decorate: Transform Your Home with Paint & Paper*. Mitchell Beazley, 2016.]

05. "Colour can also modify an architectural space or indeed completely transform it. In creating an atmosphere, colour plays an active part and was employed in this work by the architect to characterise certain points of the interior space: here colour is not a mere addition, but rather an element of the architecture itself, or indeed still more, for it is a functional component of the architecture, understood and employed for its spatial value and psychological impact."[Pauly, Daniele *Le Corbusier: the Chapel at Ronchamp*. Birkhäuser Architecture, 2008.]

06. "Daylight, even though very variable, is the colour reference as all other forms of light change the perceived colour to a greater or lesser degree. Only daylight is thought to give true colours, even though the skylight (the diffuse component of daylight, see Glossary) varies from morning to evening and is further enhanced by sunlight. Special lamps, rather than daylight, are normally used for colour matching tasks."[Engineers, Chartered Institute of Building Services *Daylighting and Window Design (CIBSE Lighting Guide)*. Chartered Institution of Building Services Engineers, 1999.]

07. "If the main entrance and corridors of a hospital are painted with shades of violet the feeling of low self-esteem often experienced by those suffering an illness may be dispelled. The strength or tonal value of the colour varies the degree and quality of inﬂuence: for example, a subtle, pale ‘pastel’ shade will be less pervasive and imperative than a solid primary colour. These colour codings may highlight why we prefer or respond to certain colour combinations and explain how light and colour can be an effective healing treatment."[Saunders, Thomas *The Boiled Frog Syndrome: Your Health and the Built Environment*. 2002.]

08. "Rectilinear rooms painted white can even ‘sound’ louder than when painted in a different colour. Colours, lighting, textures, the ﬂow of air and the actual proportions and shapes of the interior rooms have a sum total impact on the mind, body and spirit of all those who enter the building. Ideally, an overall lighting scheme should aim to counter the lack of daylight to provide good colour rendition, low brightness and a system of polarisation to reduce glare."[Saunders, Thomas *The Boiled Frog Syndrome: Your Health and the Built Environment*. 2002.]

09. "Textures affect color and light distribution. Very smooth textures may reflect so much light that they create a mirror effect. But deep, heavy textures absorb and distort light. As a result, a deeply textured white carpet appears much darker than a smooth white wall. Texture and pattern also have a relationship to scale, For example, walls made of large blocks of concrete might appear in scale in a large auditorium but out of scale in a small room of a home. 10. Complete the table with the required information using the text below: Colour scheme Colours used Mood&feelings Suitable activities Elements of interior described COLOUR WHEEL OF FORTUNE . . . This room is a melange of white from stark to creamy, sleek to shaggy, with the cold texture of marble, paint and lacquer played off against the warmth of a long-pile rug and linen upholstery all sparked by a small jolt of pure blue."[Н.М., Філіппова, and Смуглякова М.К. *Focus on Design. Part Two. Interior Design*. 2017.]

10. "Carpeting, draperies, furniture, lighting, paint, wall coverings, and many other items contribute to the creation of an interior. Interior decoration involves the careful selection of each item to suit the area's purpose and the overall mood desired. Most people think of interior decoration in terms of decorating the rooms of a house or apartment. But professionals called interior designers $ also plan and create interiors for hotels and motels, hospitals, libraries, office buildings, post offices, schools, and stores."[Н.М., Філіппова, and Смуглякова М.К. *Focus on Design. Part Two. Interior Design*. 2017.]

11. "That said, it can also be an overwhelming process as the options are limitless. And what looks good on a one-inch paint chip can look very different when you’ve dipped a whole room in it. What goes wrong between loving the paint swatch and hating the painted room?It’s usually comes down to light. The way a room receives (or doesn’t receive) light is the biggest factor in how you perceive color. Too much light and paint loses its saturation and looks like a photo that’s been overexposed by a flashbulb."[Mayhew, Elizabeth *Flip! for Decorating  A Page-by-Page, Piece-by-Piece, Room-by-Room Guide to Transforming Your Home*. Ballantine Books, 2009.]

12. "‘Not what you expect in a country cottage but friends often request that room. The dark walls create a restful, cocoonlike atmosphere. ’ PA I N T P OW E R Take into account which way the room faces. It’s a time-honoured way of choosing a colour but it does help to narrow down the many options. North-facing rooms feel more welcoming in a warmer shade whilst cooler tones feel less chilly in a room with a southfacing aspect. In Mark and Julia’s home, the colours chosen for the guest bedrooms create an instant ‘wow’ factor but for the south-facing main bedroom, Julia sourced a few rolls of vintage floral wallpaper on a pale blue background; a more restful choice for a bedroom slept in every night."[*Reclaim Magzine* 2017.]

13. "The development of fast, chemically based colours during the second half of the 19th century vastly widened the choices, and it cost no more to paint something in a bright colour than in the more traditional hues. Easy access to colour also gave people the ability to differentiate themselves from their neighbours. One author wrote in 1924 that despite the shortage of money for building materials one now had ‘the sudden astonishing discovery of colour’ (The Smaller House published by Architectural Press) which gave a house added interest at no extra cost."[Lewis, Philippa *House  British Domestic Architecture*. Prestel, 2011.]

14. "Because the outer wall is protecting the inner wall from windblown rain, materials other than metal and glass can be used to form the inner wall. Fresh air is allowed to pass through the outer wall into the zone between the two skins. This is achieved either by having open jointed, or partially open joints in the outer glazed wall, or alternatively metal flaps or louvres at floor level that are operated mechanically to admit air at different times of day and at different times of year."[Watts, Andrew *Modern Construction Handbook*. Ambra Verlag, 2013.]

15. "15 For Le Corbusier, colour, far from being purely decorative “confers space”; it bestows an extra spatial dimension on the composition and, together with light, contributes to defining an architectural locus and creating various atmospheres. In the chapel at Ronchamp Le Corbusier played with colour on two different levels: at times it creates a particular atmosphere in certain places (the violet wall adjacent to the sacristy or the red side chapel), whereas elsewhere it vitalises keynotes within the scheme (doors, windows and tabernacle)."[Pauly, Daniele *Le Corbusier: the Chapel at Ronchamp*. Birkhäuser Architecture, 2008.]

16. "Primarily its purpose is to protect (wood and iron have always needed paint treatments to prevent rot and rust), but paint can also ornament, decorate and express individuality. Early lead-based paint was coloured with earth pigments: browns, greys, off-whites, dull greens, red ochre and black. During the 18th century it was recommended that gates and railings should be ‘invisible’ green; window sashes were often stone coloured, and front doors favoured a dark colour. Cream was the favourite colour of the late 19th century, while bright white became a 20th-century classic."[Lewis, Philippa *House  British Domestic Architecture*. Prestel, 2011.]

17. "YOUTH AND AGE Like any spoken or written language, the language of interior decoration includes variations that are felt to be appropriate at different ages and for different sexes. The room of a very young child is often a three-dimensional equivalent of baby talk: it will be painted and furnished in light, bright colors, and there may be wallpaper and curtains printed with pictures of happy animals or cartoon characters."[Lurie, Alison *The Language of Houses: How Buildings Speak to Us*. Delphinium Books, 2014.]

18. "Sometimes, though, it is cheaper to just get a professional painter (who already has the equipment) to do the job quickly. Some painters may be able to spray paint interior walls, which is even quicker, though not always up to the same finished standards as a brushed or rollered finish. Pure acrylic paints are now so advanced that they can last for five to ten years and still look great. The modern acrylics can also offer lustre or limewash effects, which can look great on feature walls. Oh, and two thin coats of paint provide a better finish than one thick coat."[May, Alex *Planning Your Perfect Home Renovation: Save time and money with this essential guide to fuss-free home improvements*. 2005.]

19. "The entire meeting room is surrounded by a close alternation of window and wall, eliminating directional forces, and shedding an even light to every corner. Equally calming is a measured flow of on-and-off tones, as soothing to the eye as a shimmer of light upon water, or a flicker of leaves in a tree. Optical rhythms, initially derived from repeating patterns of window and wall, sun and shade, continue into oscillations of white plaster and blue woodwork. This austerity with so many visual echoes creates a kind of mystical emptiness."[Plummer, Henry *Stillness and Light: The Silent Eloquence of Shaker Architecture*. Indiana University Press, 2009.]

20. "Libraries and museums humidify to increase and stabilize interior moisture levels to help preserve books and archival materials, while concert halls humidify to help stabilize musical instruments. In some instances, building usage by its very nature can generate high interior RH, such as pool enclosures, shower rooms, greenhouses, food, and industrial processing plants. However, with increased humidity levels come increased potentials for condensation. Controlling Condensation of Windows Condensation or frost formation within and on the interior surfaces of exterior walls is traditionally controlled by incorporating various forms of insulation in the wall system design and restricting vapor movement through the wall."[Barry G. Hardman, Carl R. Wagus, and editors Theresa A. Weston *Performance and Durability of the Window-Wall Interface (ASTM special technical publication, 1484)*. 2006.]

21. "Finishes, Colors & Patterns • Consider texture. How does a heavy velvet drapery compare to a sleek horizontal blind, to a lacy roller shade?Different textures make different statements. • Pattern can add interest and depth to a plainly designed room or make it appear smaller and wider. How do you feel about decorative fabric patterns?Stripes?Checks?Florals?Small details?• Color can tie together disparate elements in the room through a unifying tone, make a bold statement or soften harsh lines."[Stoehr, Kathleen S., and Charles T. Randall *The Window Decorating Book*. Charles Randall, Inc., 2009.]

22. "And whatever shade you end up choosing, be loyal to it. Avoid the trap of using different shades of white to accent trim, or varying shades of white from room to room. If you hire a painter, he or she may very well try to push you in this direction, but resist: It will compromise the potential benefits of monochromatic white—its calming, peaceful effect, and its ability to make less desirable elements fade into the background. Make a plan for all architectural elements: If there is a support post in the middle of your space, painting it white is the best way to minimize it."[Mitnik-Miller, Serena, and Mason St. Peter *Abode: Thoughtful Living with Less*. 2019.]

23. "But it can feel that way. If we were to pick a favorite, most versatile (and widely available) hue from the multitude, it would come down to two low-VOC shades: Swiss Coffee by Behr and Super White by Benjamin Moore. Be advised when choosing paint that different brands often have the same name for a color, but every brand has a different formula and so the actual hue will vary."[Mitnik-Miller, Serena, and Mason St. Peter *Abode: Thoughtful Living with Less*. 2019.]

24. "The danger is that one can feel dwarfed in such surroundings; fortunately, books can be enlisted to help. An entire wall of them can make the scale seem more human; after all, books are designed to be held in the hand, and the variegated mass of colour that an expanse of spines creates helps make a large wall look less oppressive and more approachable. ‘Walls lined with books have a richness of texture and colour, as well as being wonderful insulation,’ says interior designer John Stefanidis; they also reduce echo in a cavernous space."[*Reclaim Magzine* 2017.]

25. "In practice, the design of Iwans according to the solar season is modified by the exploitation of prevailing winds. Living on different sides of the court according to season (to exclude or receive the sun) is one way of avoiding excessive summer heat gain whilst also being warmed by the sun in winter. Others modifications include interior roof overhangs and wall setbacks, which are just sufficient to exclude the summer sun but not enough to prevent winter sun from accessing spaces and rooms behind."[Edwards, Brian *Courtyard Housing*. Taylor & Francis Group, 2006.]