Created: 2025-11-08 14:43:27
Origin: searched
Selected: So, contrary to this, I suggest an interact architecture agenda that is open for technological explorations while at the same time making use of classical concepts from architecture in new innovative texturation processes of information technologies in physical spaces. fRoM ARchiTecTuRes To enviRonMenTs Not only do we need to relate these new textures available to the concept of buildings, and not only can we rely on architectural thinking when introducing digital elements and technologies in physical spaces.[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

--- Context List ---
01. "By accepting this basic principle, the book expands the history of “digital” architecture beyond the history of computers to highlight how the current generation of digital architects is experimenting with or evolving ideas and techniques that can be traced as far back as the baroque or the Renaissance. The characterization of these episodes is independent of the physical existence of computers at the time, thus implicitly constructing a more cultural history of digital architecture rather than a purely technical one."[Bottazzi, Roberto *Digital Architecture Beyond Computers: Fragments of a Cultural History of Computational Design*. Hardcover. Bloomsbury Visual Arts, 2018.]

02. "So, contrary to this, I suggest an interact architecture agenda that is open for technological explorations while at the same time making use of classical concepts from architecture in new innovative texturation processes of information technologies in physical spaces. fRoM ARchiTecTuRes To enviRonMenTs Not only do we need to relate these new textures available to the concept of buildings, and not only can we rely on architectural thinking when introducing digital elements and technologies in physical spaces."[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

03. "Eight chapters, each dissects specific techniques or concepts currently in use in digital architecture and design. As the encounter between architects and computers is opportunistic rather than predetermined, linear and chronological accounts are utilized as little as possible. Instead, the book proposes a sort of archaeology of digital-design processes and methods in which multiple narratives articulated through eight fragments—each corroborated by numerous case studies—through which the discontinuous and fluid trajectory of techniques and ideas can be more carefully articulated."[Bottazzi, Roberto *Digital Architecture Beyond Computers: Fragments of a Cultural History of Computational Design*. Hardcover. Bloomsbury Visual Arts, 2018.]

04. "In fact, AD itself has already tentatively inaugurated a new age of post-digital high-tech. 5 Some of this gloom may be premature. This digital reader is not meant as an epitaph or obituary. The shift from mechanical to digital technologies is a major historical turning point, and the makings and unmakings of the digital age should be assessed in the long view of the history of cultural technologies. This is particularly true for architecture, because architecture itself, as we know it, is the fruit of the early modern techno-cultural invention of architectural notations and of authorial design, and follows from that bizarre Renaissance claim that a new kind of humanist author, called an architect, should make drawings, not buildings."[Carpo, Mario *The digital turn in architecture 1990-2010*. Chichester: Wiley, 2012.]

05. "© Douglas Gauthier, GA and BURST*LLC. 238 The Digital Turn in Architecture 1992–2012 An often overlooked aspect of the introduction of computing to the design and management of buildings is the necessary break from traditional ideas and methods of teaching architecture. Though we are now some two decades into the digital, one senses that yet another gap between the teaching of new modes of practice using information models and traditional architectural education has been created. Lack of buildability and formal whimsy seem to inform the critique articulated by those who advocate more traditional methods of education."[Carpo, Mario *The digital turn in architecture 1990-2010*. Chichester: Wiley, 2012.]

06. "While this movement is on one sense a manifestation of the latest developments in the area of digital technology that enable us to design new dynamic surfaces, a much wider question has to do with the basic relations that exist between materials and architecture as a more fundamental and deeply historically rooted issue."[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

07. "This does not necessarily mean that the cultural and social dimensions of digital design will be categorically omitted in the study; rather they will not act as primary engines viiiPreface﻿ for innovation and development in this field. Despite the results achieved by the application of critical theory to many fields, including architecture, when it comes to digital architecture this approach seems structurally unable to grasp the intrinsic qualities, constraints, and issues related to generating spatial ideas with digital devices."[Bottazzi, Roberto *Digital Architecture Beyond Computers: Fragments of a Cultural History of Computational Design*. Hardcover. Bloomsbury Visual Arts, 2018.]

08. "Thus, a central challenge for this new architecture must be to strive to align physical and digital materials into textures capable of communicating the built environment as a whole, or formulated through the terms introduced earlier in this chapter, as one coherent appearance and architectonic message. Today, there is a lot of experimenting with new digital materials going on in architecture and interior design. In different ways the digital is introduced into physical spaces as to enrich, challenge and re-think a physical space."[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

09. "This basic set of notions was and still is the warp and weft of digital design, and also the main reason why continuous lines and parametric variations remain to this day the hallmark of digitally inspired architecture. Computers are famously versatile machines, and they do not express aesthetic preferences. One could use CAD/CAM technologies to mass-produce boxes and blobs, indifferently. However, unlike boxes, blobs cannot be mass-produced in the absence of digital tools (and in fact they were never mass-produced until recently)."[Carpo, Mario *The digital turn in architecture 1990-2010*. Chichester: Wiley, 2012.]

10. "Such techniques interlace human vision and digital scanning in strange new  ways and prompt reflection on the very act of reading architecture (Fig."[INPUT: Morel_Bier__Disruptive_Technologies_The_Convergence_of_New_Paradigms_in_Architecture.pdf]

11. " 10 From Disruptions in Architectural Pedagogy to Disruptive Pedagogies . . . 137 the new digital turn. As opposed to one-way, top-down imposition of expert knowledge from the “ivory tower”,18 computation can be employed to discover new ways  of making sense of the vernacular: urban or rural complexities, intelligences, material  and immaterial resources, socio-economic patterns, labor and craft knowledge, biodiversity, etc. (i. e. , Feral Atlas19 and Forensic Architecture are two inspirational practices that use digital techniques20 resourcefully in investigating the spatio-temporal  complexities of lived events and environments)."[INPUT: Morel_Bier__Disruptive_Technologies_The_Convergence_of_New_Paradigms_in_Architecture.pdf]

12. "That's when I realized how Modern Architecture had begun to exercise the same unbending, rigid authority as the old Academie. I do not totally reject Modern Architecture, by any means. My own work always makes use of what I regard as the positive aspects of Modern Architecture. But when I see how rigid it has become, how it has lost all flexibility, I ma forced to ally myself with those who attack the weaknesses of Modern Architecture and the Modernist doctrine of society. Another factor important to keep in mind is that Modern Architecture appeared at a time when abstract art was believed to be more advanced and avant-garde than representative art."[Kurokawa, Kisho *The Philosophy of Symbiosis*. 2nd. 1994.]

13. "Will = Text; Toward the Evocation of Meaning I have noted how Modern Architecture, as a Modern epistemology, is deeply rooted in Western dominance and logos. If we are to move on to Postmodern Architecture, which asks ontological and semantic questions in its attempt to create an evocation of meaning, how must we transform the design methods of Modern Architecture?The basis for the design methods of Modern Architecture up to now has been the a priori assumption of an ideal image of architecture (an order) which is single and universal."[Kurokawa, Kisho *The Philosophy of Symbiosis*. 2nd. 1994.]

14. "Computational methods were ipso facto proof of elicit and suspect engineering  associations with architecture. Yet Gandelsonas and Morton may not have considered  how machines might read architecture and thus transform their avowedly humanistic  notion of architectural reading. Over time, the capacities of machine to read that once  seemed insufficient for or incommensurate with architectural readability began to  improve and ultimately approximate the human reading of architecture in compelling  ways."[INPUT: Morel_Bier__Disruptive_Technologies_The_Convergence_of_New_Paradigms_in_Architecture.pdf]

15. "I will argue that, in fact, not much has changed. Physicians use digital images in much the same way that they have used analog images. This is, in itself, perhaps not surprising. After all, how else would we expect doctors to use them?I do not want to discount the novelty of these digital imaging technologies, but the use of images has implications for their production. If digital images are used just as analog images were employed, then it also follows that the very design of these ‘‘new’’ technologies has appropriated ‘‘old’’ procedures and practices."[Rabinovitz, Lauren, Abraham Geil, and (eds.) *Memory Bytes: History, Technology, and Digital Culture*. Duke University Press, 2004.]