Created: 2025-12-26 05:27:24
Origin: suggested
Selected: The primary concern of this text is space planning, not design presentation. Despite this, the language of space planning is the floor plan, and its graphic qualities cannot be entirely ignored. One of the premises of the planning methodology presented here is that the transition from the rough floor plan to the preliminary or presentation floor plan is part of the planning process, not just a graphic refinement.[Karlen, Mark, and Rob Fleming *Space Planning Basics*. 4th ed. Wiley, 2016.]

--- Context List ---
01. "the upright body From prayer rugs to tatami grids to basketball courts, the floor has established a few presumed,  if unspoken, rules of the game. A contemplation of architectural elements does not assemble an encyclopedia or reinforce a canon.  It does the opposite. A prolonged look at each element presents puzzles about cultural habituation -  something like architectural why-stories that defamiliarize, even upset, conventions. It may also expose a fatal error when a set of limited cultural habits have stiffened around the  element, eliminating a whole range of techniques for making space. A contemplation of the floor  returns to one of those forks in the road - territories sidelined in history that can become fresh  projects for the discipline. "[INPUT: floor.pdf]

02. "floor" to prompt or indulge a spectrum of behaviors is perhaps another underexploited power  worth retrieving from a study of architectural elements. section A historical fast-forward through the changing cross-section of the floor would remain steady on  hardened earth for centuries, eventually incorporating aggregates of stone and wooden timbers.  Floors in ancient palaces and temples across all civilizations, paved with every possible stone and  metal, would animate the section slightly. The Greeks introduced beams combining stone and  iron to resist bending. Romans introduced the chemical composite of concrete also occasionally "[INPUT: floor.pdf]

03. "The primary concern of this text is space planning, not design presentation. Despite this, the language of space planning is the floor plan, and its graphic qualities cannot be entirely ignored. One of the premises of the planning methodology presented here is that the transition from the rough floor plan to the preliminary or presentation floor plan is part of the planning process, not just a graphic refinement."[Karlen, Mark, and Rob Fleming *Space Planning Basics*. 4th ed. Wiley, 2016.]

04. "Although some physical planning has taken place, in drawing prototypical plan sketches of specific functions or rooms and abstract relationship diagrams of the organization as a whole, the overall plan has not yet been approached from a realistic planning viewpoint. The initial leap from these pre-design steps to the more creative development of a floor plan that solves the practical and esthetic problems of users is the most difficult and critical element in the space planning process."[Karlen, Mark, and Rob Fleming *Space Planning Basics*. 4th ed. Wiley, 2016.]

05. "Such a design should not only critically interpret and abstract the ongoing process of urban layering, but also contribute to such formation via its spatial and geometrical organisation. One of the major problems was in organising this space as a multi-religious cultural centre, while an associated problem was to unite sub-ground levels with ground floor facilities."[Brebbia, C. A., D. Kaliampakos, and P. Prochazka *Underground Spaces : Design, Engineering and Environmental Aspects (Wit Transactions on the Built Environment)*. WIT Press, 2008.]

06. "Outside becomes in, inside becomes out. Lighting armatures and lighting levels were very important because of the function of the space, and soft lighting combines with natural materials to create a warm, welcoming feel. 在室内的表面设计中，马赛克、天然石材、木材、玻璃和镜 子等材料相互作用，打造出了一曲和谐的乐章。设计师精心 挑选了一些图案、海报和标语贴在墙面上，为空间增添了浪 漫的感觉。 2 1. Wood floor in cutting area creates a relaxing atmosphere 2."[Chang, Catherine *Beauty Salons*. Liaoning Science & Technology Publishing House, Profession Design Press, 2011.]

07. "2. 1. Structure To provide a flat, horizontal surface on which desired human activities can take place, all buildings contain at least one floor. In primitive buildings, the ground may be used as the floor. In better buildings, the floor may be a deck laid on the ground or supported above ground on structural members, such as the joist indicated in Fig."[Merritt, Frederick S., and James Ambrose (auth.) *Building Engineering and Systems Design*. Springer US, 1989.]

08. "‘It enables us to navigate the junctions of public and private space, and somehow the plan eases movement within its clear circulation system. In practical terms, it means areas can be closed off and different points of access used. ’ This is necessary when people want to enter the gallery space run by Michael. This expansive, window-lined room faces the street, and here an atmosphere of containment has been engineered by raising the floor by 300mm and building a plywood insert which forms the floor, extensive shelving for books, walls and areas for the display of Michael’s highly curated objects and works of art."[McCartney, Karen *The Alchemy of Things: Interiors Shaped by Curious Minds*. Allen & Unwin, 2018.]

09. "These elements could be flexibly adopted in modern spaces. Above is an interesting partition design. The adoption of dark wooden material and the Chinese traditional structure make it feel classic. It effectively offers the space a strong cultural sense, acting as both a partition for the space and a large screen. 170 New Art Deco Style 171 The "moon gate" is a typical Chinese architectural design element, which now is popularly used in modern design."[Du (Editor), Darren *New Art Deco Style*. Design Media Publishing Ltd, 2011.]

10. "At the waiting area, the wood floor pattern breaks the normal long-running board pattern with cross-stitched short boards slowing the visitor down. In the lounge area a brick floor with a simple running bond pattern define the informal dining area. At the kitchen visitors walk on an antiqued hexagonal brick floor. Even in the bathrooms, a carefully considered large stone floor pattern support a larger series of discrete experiences that work overall to quietly engage the visitor into quiet contemplation."[Du (Editor), Darren *New Art Deco Style*. Design Media Publishing Ltd, 2011.]

11. "“Thinking about how you move in and through a space is the key. ” Reorienting a layout can deliver great gains,suchascreatingadualuseforasingle room or maximising storage, says Sydney interior designer Natasha Levak. “With a clever floor plan, you can ensure no space is wasted and the general feeling of the interior becomes not only practical but aesthetically pleasing. ” Levak recently remodelled an Art Deco apartment in Sydney’s east."[*Australian House & Garden* 2017.]

12. "That said, it should be remembered that arbitrarily eliminating as many interior walls as possible will not necessarily result in a better space. While floor area and elbow room are inevitably gained, wall space is lost. This may affect the possibilities for furniture placement and storage options. Open-concept layouts are great so long as they truly correspond with the necessities at hand."[Shafer, Jay *The Small House Book*. Tumbleweed Tiny House, 2009.]

13. "Each floor is supported at the base of one beam or truss and at the top of the adjoining beams or trusses. Consequently, the span of the floor is only half the spacing between the structural members. Hence, even with a thin floor deck, structural members can be widely spaced, with the result that fewer beams or trusses and columns are needed than for conventional construction."[Merritt, Frederick S., and James Ambrose (auth.) *Building Engineering and Systems Design*. Springer US, 1989.]

14. "The textural details of previous occupants are kept intact 4. There is a map-like pattern on the concrete floor 5. It is a space of pure white 6. Different areas have different lightings 1. 白色的墙壁从天花板一直延伸到地板 2. 顾客在等候时可以阅读杂志 3. 从前租户所留下的印记被原封不动地保留了下来 4. 水泥地面上有一块类似地图的图案 5. 这是一个纯白的空间 6. 不同区域的灯光不同 1 4 5 2 3 3 6 230 - 231 1. Reception 2. Waiting area 3. Cutting area 4."[Chang, Catherine *Beauty Salons*. Liaoning Science & Technology Publishing House, Profession Design Press, 2011.]

15. "My living area occupies a third of the large, open-plan, ground-floor space of a former auction house. It runs from the entrance to the study, with a long marble ledge for displaying art and other treasures linking the spaces together. Two of the monumental wood-clad structural columns that punctuate the space create a natural sense of division from the dining area and kitchen, and this is underlined further by the linear style of the furniture."[Hoppen, Kelly *House of Hoppen: A Retrospective*. Jacqui Small, 2016.]

16. "The walls are a large “plane. ” The sofa is a large “plane. ” The floor coverings and floor are large planes. My apartment might be a fun example to analyze . . . Our dining room and living room have zany painted floors—a deep beigey color coupled with a crisp white to make a wild, but not too wild, checkerboard floor. The walls pull from the white in the floor—a quiet “plane” in contrast with the “pop” of the painted floors."[Salway, Christina, and Monica Pedersen *Home improvement projects for the busy & broke: how to get your $h!t together and live like an adult*. Skyhorse Publishing, 2016.]

17. "Concrete Floors After the Second World War new forms of construction appeared. This was mainly due to a shortage of materials, particularly those such as timber which required importing, and, of course, a shortage of skilled labour. The concrete ground floor was developed as a response to this shortage (a few pre-war examples do exist) and is basically a bed of concrete which is supported by the ground directly beneath it."[MBEng, Duncan Marshall BSc MCIOB, and Derek Worthing BSc Mphil MRICS *The Construction of Houses, Fourth Edition*. 4th ed. Estates Gazette Ltd, 2006.]

18. "It abuts, but is not tied into, the external walls to accommodate slight differential settlement of the wall and floor. Because of the relatively low superimposed loads of furniture and occupants it is suitable for most types of ground and, in the 1960s to 1980s it was, by far, the most common type of floor. In modern construction about 40% of floors are formed in ground bearing slabs, the rest are pre-cast concrete (about 50%) and timber 10%."[MBEng, Duncan Marshall BSc MCIOB, and Derek Worthing BSc Mphil MRICS *The Construction of Houses, Fourth Edition*. 4th ed. Estates Gazette Ltd, 2006.]

19. "Most of the buildings in the world are structured today by three-dimensional frames, consisting of floor slabs supported by beams, beams supported by columns, columns supported by foundations, and foundations sitting on the earth. The beams and columns, usually set at the corners of a rectangular grid, are made out of steel or reinforced concrete; the floor slabs, most of the time, of reinforced concrete."[Levy, Matthys, Mario Salvadori, and Kevin Woest *Why Buildings Fall Down: How Structures Fail*. W.W. Norton, 1994.]

20. "Concrete slabs are used all over the world to build floors in all types of buildings (even those with steel columns and beams) and act as "two-dimensional beams" bending in one or two directions depending on how they are supported (Fig. D18). APPENDIX D 297 a Tensile Hoops in Dome TF/V61LE HOOPS LOAPINC, —2*s me* b Tension Ring at Base of Dome D17 Dome LOAPtNCf 3ENPMAT 5A&0 OF PCMB D18 Beam-Supported Floor Slab 298 APPENDIX D a Nails in Wood c Web Connection in Steel b Special Connection in Wood d Fixed Connection in Steel e Moment Connection in Concrete D19 Connections APPENDIX D 299 Connections Structural systems are put together by joining structural elements."[Levy, Matthys, Mario Salvadori, and Kevin Woest *Why Buildings Fall Down: How Structures Fail*. W.W. Norton, 1994.]

21. "Your teacher or the accompanist provides transitional music to allow groups to move in and out of the dancing space. Move across the floor. When you move across the floor either by yourself, in a line, or with a group, you must be safe and courteous. Performing as an individual, the goal is to move across the floor either in one or two repetitions of the combination."[Kassing, Gayle *Beginning ballet*. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2013.]

22. "Figure 4 shows that the expressions contained in the seismic provisions of the UBC 1997 and ASCE/SEI 7-10 to determine floor accelerations for the design of nonstructural components are representative of the floor acceleration envelope. The term Ai /Ag represents the amplification of the floor acceleration with respect to the peak ground acceleration, and the term hi /hr represents the floor height divided by the roof height."[Lynn, Abraham C., and Robert Reitherman *AEI 2011 : building integration solutions : proceedings of the 2011 Architectural Engineering National Conference, March 30-April 2, 2011 Oakland, California*. Oakland, Calif.), Reston, Va: American Society of Civil Engineers, 2011.]

23. "Each enclosure includes façade and / or roof elements that uniquely respond to specific design issues. The four projects highlight the particular ways in which innovative structural engineering concepts have been used to realize the aspirations of the architects making these atria and pavilions special places. BACKGROUND SOM established a track record of major building projects in China with the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China headquarters in Beijing (completed 1998) consisting of a dual system of steel eccentric braced frames and moment resisting frames, and the Jin Mao Tower in Shanghai (completed 1999) consisting of a composite system of reinforced concrete core walls, perimeter composite megacolumns and structural steel floor framing."[Lynn, Abraham C., and Robert Reitherman *AEI 2011 : building integration solutions : proceedings of the 2011 Architectural Engineering National Conference, March 30-April 2, 2011 Oakland, California*. Oakland, Calif.), Reston, Va: American Society of Civil Engineers, 2011.]

24. "The reader, viewer, consumer, constructs the space, participating actively in the design."[Colomina, Beatriz *Domesticity at War*. The MIT Press, 2007.]

25. "The incorporation of the horizontal loadbearing elements (floor slabs) into the vertical ones (columns) is another distinguishing criterion."[Herzog, Thomas *Facade Construction Manual*. Birkhäuser Architecture, 2004.]