Created: 2025-12-27 16:13:50
Origin: suggested
Selected: The stairs and the human being, each in its way, has conquered servitude.[Ginsberg, Robert *The Aesthetics of Ruins: Illustrated by the Author*. Rodopi, 2004.]

--- Context List ---
01. "The stairs and the human being, each in its way, has conquered servitude."[Ginsberg, Robert *The Aesthetics of Ruins: Illustrated by the Author*. Rodopi, 2004.]

02. "Selfishness hurts the world and you. Humility introduces grace. Arrogance throws our life off pace."[Johnson, C.W. *Fasting, Longevity, and Immortality*. illustrated. Survival, 1978.]

03. "Truncating spiral stair with  a steadily reducing width a  stair 'eye' or central void,  decreasing in diameter  towards the top. Truncating spiral stair with  a steadily reducing width  towards the top, whilst  maintaining a constant  diameter of the stair 'eye'  or central void. Different stair towers  in plan. Imperial staircase: One  central access flight and  two diverging parallel  flights of stairs, connected  by a platform landing. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

04. " DOORWAY Remember that frisson as you step through a doorway: into a crowded party or a silent church; for a job interview, or into your own home after a long journey. Though we take them for granted, doorways impinge on our lives in many ways. Their thresholds divide up the world, punctuating our movements from place to place and creating ‘fault-lines’ in our experience."[Unwin, Simon *Doorway*. Routledge, 2008.]

05. "In the 1980s British-based architects like Nigel Coates and Eva Jiricna successfully carried out shopfitting projects at home and abroad, producing hugely imaginative and inventive staircases. Coates specialised in cladding stairs in exotic materials such as copper and forming them into sensual curving shapes. Chipperfield and Pawson produced refined minimalist stairs. 87 Eva Jiricna pioneered a series of extraordinary stainless steel and glass staircases (e. g."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

06. "STAIR PAGE 291 Friedrich Mielke Treppen in Nürnberg Schriften zur internationalen Treppenforschung Band XV PAGE 292 STAIR 23. 2008  Man and stairs STAIR PAGE 293 Friedrich Mielke Mensch und Treppe Schriften zur internationalen Treppenforschung Band XVI PAGE 294 STAIR “how do people walk on stairs?" For the study of human behavior on  stairs, both as a whole and individually,  three different methods may be  applied: 1. A laboratory experiment,  with a programmed observation  of people walking on stairs 2. A covert observation of random  people walking on stairs 3. The notation of stepping paths  on worn stairs (Steigespuren) "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

07. "Quoted in Animals and People Sharing the World, ed."[Schweid, Richard *The Cockroach Papers: A Compendium of History and Lore*. Basic Books, Inc., 1999.]

08. "the victory That overcomes this world, Devil contradictory. But God's power Faith is unfurled. the evidence Of things yet unseen. Proof of a providence, Assurance of esteem. Hope To is our solution life's bitter Salve for sin 's woes, pollution. Exit out of throes. Hope is a beacon To guide us in the dark, A feeling we speak on To give our life a spark. Hope To It is a white light destroy all our fears."[Johnson, C.W. *Fasting, Longevity, and Immortality*. illustrated. Survival, 1978.]

09. "10 In the medieval consensus, the cathedral was a center of felt value. It symbolized the transcendent and, while reflecting many cultural values and limitations, pointed beyond this world to God and heaven where, for the medieval person, true value and treasure lay. The cathedral, therefore, provided a place of orientation, a place where you could get your bearings, and a reminder that life was lived sub specie aeternitas (in the light of eternity)."[Zepp, Ira G. *The New Religious Image of Urban America (Mesoamerican Worlds)*. University Press of Colorado, 1997.]

10. "The first human beings commit sin in Eden and then enter the world with sin. In place of Eden, the mortal world is given Adam (Heb: “human being” [generic] or “man” [gender-specific]), his mate, and their descendants, as the punishment for sin. Our life is a curse. “I curse the day I was born,” would cry Job, the model of righteousness {Job, 3:1-3). Adam’s sin is Christianity’s cleverest inspiration/interpretation/insistence/instigation/inheritance/invention."[Ginsberg, Robert *The Aesthetics of Ruins: Illustrated by the Author*. Rodopi, 2004.]

11. "The elderly also find long flights difficult to ascend or descend without a pause. For this reason, flights of more than ten risers should be avoided. It is easy to suppose that helical stairs and dog-leg stairs with winders are more dangerous than straight flights. 25 Counter-intuitively, research has shown that the reverse is the case: significantly more accidents happen on straight flights of stairs than spiral stairs, dog-leg stairs or those with winders, and more serious injuries also result. 26 It appears that the more difficult stairs are to climb (such as spiral stairs with their varying widths of winders) the more people pay attention to what they are doing and the less likely they are to trip."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

12. "Modern developments with ®re resisting glazing can recapture transparency instead of stair shafts being hidden away in walled-off enclosures. Commercial stairs Figure 3. 3a Solid wells: Stacked escape stairs Figure 3. 3b Solid wells: Fender walls Figure 3. 3c Solid wells: Half-step relationship 31 32 Stairs 3. 1. 1 Of®ce core locations The salient dimensions relate to the maximum escape run from the furthest corner of the working area to the safety of the enclosed stairs."[Blanc, Sylvia, and Alan Blanc *Stairs, Second Edition*. Architectural Press, 2001.]

13. "Based on these observations, the author developed a formula to calculated the expected flow on a stair: ⎛ P ⎞ F = 0. 206·(b − 0. 3 )· ⎜ ⎟ ⎝ b − 0. 3 ⎠ 0. 27 (A. 1) where: F = flow (persons/s) P = population (persons) b = width of stairs (m) In Eq. A. 1, the −0. 3 term is to account for the space (a boundary layer) that people left between themselves and the wall."[Hoskins, Bryan L., and James A. Milke (auth.) *Study of Movement Speeds Down Stairs*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2013.]

14. "The whole concept is a decorative piece of sculpture. Inspiration comes from water forms, with puddle-like treads with a hand-textured edge, and a waterdroplet `grab hold' handrail twisting around the central column. Snake-like balustrades give an enticing effect combined with the strobe lighting of the venue. Figure 13. 7 General view of stair 223 224 Stairs Case Study 13. 8 Private House, Clifton Terrace, Dublin Architect: A & D Wejchert Architects This is a beautiful light spiral stair, 1 670 mm diameter, constructed from bright polished stainless steel and acrylic."[Blanc, Sylvia, and Alan Blanc *Stairs, Second Edition*. Architectural Press, 2001.]

15. "Imposing our Geometry on the World West Kennet was apparently built as an artificial cave. But its architect replaced the geologically determined geometry of caves with one that is in accord with our own. The ubiquity of the doorway rectangle is a subtle and frequent reminder of the orthogonal dimensions of our being. (In Analysing Architecture I called them ‘the six directions plus centre’. )"[Unwin, Simon *Doorway*. Routledge, 2008.]

16. "The so-called 7/11 stair geometry commonly required in US codes meets the relation 2R+G=635. Templer 15 summarizes a number of research studies of stair geometry and safety. Many such studies were conducted by observing people moving up or down stairs in buildings. Observations in subway or train stations at rush hours provided data for higher population densities."[Bukowski, Richard W. *Emergency Egress From Buildings*. National Institute of Standards and Technology, 2009.]

17. "4. Foot of the stairs in the former townhouse of la Vuillière (minister of war)."[Contet, Frédéric *Masterpieces of Eighteenth-Century French Ironwork: With Over 300 Illustrations*. Dover Publications, 2004.]

18. "Article 122 requires that certain through stairs be designated as escape stairs and be constructed in accordance with article 123."[Bukowski, Richard W. *Emergency Egress From Buildings*. National Institute of Standards and Technology, 2009.]

19. "For stairs, occupants first ascended and then descended stairs after a 5-min rest. No information was provided about the number of steps or stair dimensions, but the speed was measured along the slope of the stairs. Forty-two subjects were able to participate in the stair portion of the experiment. Of these, 8 did not have a disability, 4 needed assistance from another person, and 30 had a disability, but were able to use the stairs without the assistance from another person."[Hoskins, Bryan L., and James A. Milke (auth.) *Study of Movement Speeds Down Stairs*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2013.]

20. "3. Balcony and spike clusters, 53 Rue Hugerie. Toulouse. 2. Spike cluters executed by Joseph Bosc—from the Cours Dillon, but now in the garden of the St-Raymond collegiate church. Compiègne Palace. Overall views of the grand staircase and the Apollo staircase. Compiègne Palace. Grand staircase: foot of the stairs and detail. Compiègne Palace. Apollo staircase: foot of the stairs and detail."[Contet, Frédéric *Masterpieces of Eighteenth-Century French Ironwork: With Over 300 Illustrations*. Dover Publications, 2004.]

21. " Bibliographical Note This Dover edition, first published in 2006, contains a facsimile of the Blumer & Kuhn Stair Co. catalog of Stairs, Stair Railing, Balusters, Newel Posts, Mantels, Pew Ends, etc. , originally published by Rand, McNally & Company, Chicago, in 1893. Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Prblication Data Victorian woodturnings and woodwork / Blumer & Kuhn Stair Co. p. cm."[Blumer, Kuhn Stair Co. *Victorian Woodturnings and Woodwork*. Dover Publications, 2012.]

22. "Stairs Semicircular stairs nestled between walls of foundation skirting is an excellent feature for distinguishing a fairly undistinguished deck. This small, gray dining deck also features natural wood railings with glass inserts, but it’s the stairs that set a truly sophisticated tone. This is why choosing stair style is always a part of a good deck design—they should never be an afterthought Stair configuration goes far in determining how the deck is perceived."[Peterson, Chris *Deck ideas you can use: creative deck designs for every home & yard*. Minneapolis, Minn: Creative Publishing international, 2011.]

23. "This option indicates that the capacity for stairs in NFPA 130 is used for stairs over or under 4 % of slope in the up or down direction. Users can also modify this default setting with the desired flows and speeds through stairs. An alternative method is the definition of a plane with the shape of the stair under consideration. This method is particularly effective when the shape of the stair is not conventional (e. g. , spiral stairs)."[Ronchi, Enrico, and Daniel Nilsson (auth.) *Assessment of Total Evacuation Systems for Tall Buildings*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2014.]

24. "Stairs in Pathfinder Stairs are represented in Pathfinder through straight-run of steps. The model requires the input data about riser, tread and width (see Fig. 4. 21). In Pathfinder, the specified tread rise and run are the factors considered in the calculation, i. e. , the simulation is not dependent on the geometric slope of the stairs. Stairways denote areas where the maximum occupant speed is controlled by an alternate specific calculation."[Ronchi, Enrico, and Daniel Nilsson (auth.) *Assessment of Total Evacuation Systems for Tall Buildings*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2014.]

25. "Stairs, Newel Posts Balusters Stair Railing. STAIRS, NEWEL POSTS, BALUSTERS, STAIR RAILING, ETC. Fig. 1182 Fig. 1183 Fig. 1184 Fig. 1185 Fig. 1186 Fig. 1187 Fig. 1188 Fig. 1189 DIRECTIONS NECESSARY FOR ORDERING STAIRS AND STAIR RAILING. When a flight of stairs is wanted, we should know the height of story from floor to floor, width of joists in second story, width and run of stairs, the size of cylinder, style of base used in the hall, with rough sketch showing about the shape of stairs wanted."[Blumer, Kuhn Stair Co. *Victorian Woodturnings and Woodwork*. Dover Publications, 2012.]