Created: 2025-12-03 23:44:33
Origin: suggested
Selected: In examining how we, humans, are constantly present, mirrored, and in many other ways active in the digital world we can identify interaction through the existence of online communities, virtual worlds, social networking services, and even through the frequent use of email as an online tool for social interaction. Online interaction should not be forgotten in any modeling of interaction per se on the contrary, and as pinpointed by e. g. Hollan (2000), the complex networked world of online interaction should be a focal aspect of our understanding of interaction.[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

--- Context List ---
01. "In examining how we, humans, are constantly present, mirrored, and in many other ways active in the digital world we can identify interaction through the existence of online communities, virtual worlds, social networking services, and even through the frequent use of email as an online tool for social interaction. Online interaction should not be forgotten in any modeling of interaction per se on the contrary, and as pinpointed by e. g. Hollan (2000), the complex networked world of online interaction should be a focal aspect of our understanding of interaction."[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

02. "If just studying IT use from the outside this will be to a large extend invisible. It is therefore important to engage oneself in this world of layered intersections of interactions as to discover the inner character of IT use, i. e. interaction. Having introduced interaction as an act of, or perhaps the art of, creating meaningful intersections in between the human and the digital I now move on to theorize the concept of interaction even further as to address how digital objects and digitalized places are increasingly becoming part of our interaction rituals from the viewpoint of a model that first examine the notion of interaction in detail followed by an attempt to contextualize the notion of interaction in relation to the context in which interaction occur."[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

03. "By doing so, we add a rich media dimension that allow for new forms of interpersonal interaction through these new textures in which remote persons can act in concert with co-located ones, and though which new forms of information flows, communication, collaboration and coordination might evolve as we develop these new materials. In Figure 54 a schematic model of this media dimension of new textures is outlined. As illustrated in this figure we might think about these new textures in relation to new interaction modalities and underlying enabling structures."[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

04. "This is aligned to the idea of interactivity as a cooperative process involving user participation, which was examined in Chapter 4. Instead of defining interactive architecture using insights from architectural examples and publications only, we looked deeper into the emergence of the concept of interactivity in the postwar cybernetic discourse, which led to contemporary notions of interactivity in the context of the new digital media and human–computer interaction."[Yiannoudes, Socrates *Architecture and Adaptation: From Cybernetics to Tangible Computing*. Routledge, 2016.]

05. "We further pursue the concept in contemporary digital media, and examine its particular meaning within the fields of conversation analysis and human social interaction, in order to explore its potential application in computationally augmented spaces. In light of this discussion, we review contemporary interactive environments and installations, such as ADA and Performative Ecologies, in order to evaluate their interactive capacities."[Yiannoudes, Socrates *Architecture and Adaptation: From Cybernetics to Tangible Computing*. Routledge, 2016.]

06. "However, in order to explore interaction in the context of architectural space and the nuances of this development, we need to proceed to the examination of the social aspects of interactivity, i. e. human–machine interaction in the complex social framework of daily activity. As we shall see, sociological and ethnographic accounts of interaction in systems of practice within which computational applications are embedded, suggest alternatives to traditional notions of interactivity. 31 Situated and Conversational Interaction Interaction, in the context of sociology and communication studies, draws on human face-to-face communication."[Yiannoudes, Socrates *Architecture and Adaptation: From Cybernetics to Tangible Computing*. Routledge, 2016.]

07. "ACM Press, November 1992. 104 [4] W. Buxton. There's more to interaction than meets the eye: Some issues in manual input. In D. A. Norman and S. W. Draper, editors, User-centered Design: New Perspectives on Human-Computer Interaction. Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Hillsdale. N. J. 1986. [5] w. Buxton. The three mirrors of interaction: a holistic approach to user interfaces. In L. W. MacDonald and J. Vince, editors, Interacting with virtual environments."[Harling, Philip A., and Alistair D.N. Edwards *Progress in Gestural Interaction: Proceedings of Gesture Workshop ’96, March 19th 1996, University of York, UK*. Springer London, 1997.]

08. "The spread of electronic media and computer technology began to suggest, if not define, new ways to present information. With new interactive media, graphic design could no longer be one dimensional. As traditional methods of designing books and magazines were challenged, visionary American designers like April Greiman and Dan Friedman found new ways of busting the grid. Harnessing the primitive characteristics of electronic media and making strengths out of technological weakness resulted in new methods that, over time, evolved into a language."[Heller, Steven *Design Literacy: Understanding Graphic Design*. 2nd. 2004.]

09. "In this respect, I am partially in agreement with the modern theory of metaphor, as elaborated in English by I. A. Richards, Max Black, Monroe 132 the theory of interpretation Beardsley, Douglas Berggren, etc. 1 More precisely, I agree with these authors on the fundamental point: a word receives a metaphorical meaning in speciﬁc contexts, within which it is opposed to other words taken literally. The shift in meaning results primarily from a clash between literal meanings, which excludes the literal use of the word in question and provides clues for ﬁnding a new meaning capable of according with the context of the sentence and rendering the sentence meaningful therein."[Ricoeur, Paul, and John B. Thompson *Hermeneutics and the Human Sciences: Essays on Language, Action and Interpretation*. Reissue. Cambridge University Press, 2016.]

10. "In the multiple decades that have elapsed since the first edition of this book was published, design has gotten better. There are now many books and courses on the topic. But even though much has improved, the rapid rate of technology change outpaces the advances in design. New technologies, new applications, and new methods of interaction are continually arising and evolving."[Norman, Don *The Design of Everyday Things - Revised and Expanded Edition*. Basic Books, 2013.]

11. "Metaphor making, in this account, is essentially the same process as concept formation; through a perspective change, a new concept is formed on the basis of old and new information. In the theory of metaphor thus outlined, a metaphorical meaning essentially is part of a polysemic complex, or at least, it stands at the beginning of a newly formed additional meaning for the metaphorically used expressions. Metaphor therewith is only different from other utterances in that they require the interpreter to change perspective, since the metaphorical use of an expression is not understood with the help of its normal or standard meaning."[Brouwer, Elisabeth Cathérine *Imagining Metaphors: Cognitive Representation in Interpretation and Understanding*. Institute for Logic, Language and Computation Universiteit van Amsterdam, 2003.]

12. "By carefully integrating elements of design into ethnography, we hope to inject ethnography with a newfound creativity, new ways of thinking, new kinds of collaboration, new pedagogical techniques, new raw materials, and new kinds of outputs. The ultimate results of this project are still unclear, but we have several aspirational goals. The most general is to find ways to update and modernize both the regulative norms and actual range of techniques in classic ethnographic practice, to make ethnography more adaptable to the contemporary world."[Gunn, Wendy, Ton Otto, and Rachel Charlotte Smith (Eds.) *Design Anthropology: Theory and Practice*. London; New York: Bloomsbury, 2013.]

13. "Our research resulted in identifying seven main Design Thinking working modes. From these conclusions we decided to design and implement a new IT-tool which truly supports and optimizes collaborative creative work without getting in the way of the teams involved in the process. Recent development of touch enabled whiteboards, monitors and smartphones provided us with new opportunities for an intuitive use of hard- and software. Hence, we started to develop the Tele-Board system, an electronic whiteboard software suite which allows users to write digital sticky notes on tablet PCs, smartphones or directly on a whiteboard."[Lindberg, Tilmann, Christoph Meinel, Ralf Wagner (auth.), Christoph Meinel, Larry Leifer, and Hasso Plattner (eds.) *Design Thinking: Understand – Improve – Apply*. Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg, 2011.]

14. "This provided a good model of cooperative dialogue. Many ideas came from the social psychology literature. This identifies many strategies used by human conversants that are extremely effective in regulating dialogue, and can be adapted for use in human-computer dialogue. This flavour of our work emerges in some of the techniques described below. Experimental user interface studies We also carried out some experimental studies to address specific issues in the design of user interfaces for in-car use."[Parkes, Andrew M., and Stig Franzen *Driving future vehicles*. London, Washington, DC: Taylor & Francis, 1993.]

15. "pp 637-652) Bartsch, R. 1998. Dynamic Conceptual Semantics. A Logico-Philosophical Investigation into Concept Formation and Understanding. Stanford, California: CSLI Publications. Bartsch, R. 2002. 'Generating Polysemy: Metaphor and Metonymy' in: Dirven, R. and Pörings, R. (eds. )Metaphor and Metonymy in Comparison and Contrast. Berlin: Mouton De Gruyter. Benjamin, W. 1968. 'The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction' in: Illuminations. New York: Harcourt Brace. pp 217-251 (First published in 1936) Black, M. 1962."[Brouwer, Elisabeth Cathérine *Imagining Metaphors: Cognitive Representation in Interpretation and Understanding*. Institute for Logic, Language and Computation Universiteit van Amsterdam, 2003.]