Created: 2025-11-14 18:21:44
Origin: searched
Selected: Otherwise, possession of it would be no advantage. Therefore, information must be something that can be stored, owned, lost, and found. It must be capable of being priced. It must be transformable—and possible to speak of as differentially distributed across a population. If everybody has it—then it is not new—not information. It must also be possible to speak of it as having a private or a public, or an anonymous, or an identified character, and so on. Several of the characteristics Garfinkel lists relate to completeness of information. And, I think here he is being sensitive to a fundamental contradiction in the conventional theories of information. A rational actor with complete information is assumed—and yet information is the unknown—the new—the anomaly. In actual practice, actors never have complete information—and yet are capable of handling and recognizing information. In order to overcome this contradiction, information must be capable of being incomplete, or lost, or changed.[Garfinkel, Harold, and Anne Rawls (ed.) *Toward a Sociological Theory of Information*. Paradigm, 2008.]

--- Context List ---
01. "(von Foerster, 1970, 30) The use of the term ‘potential information’ for what is retrieved from a document is gaining ground in library and information science (Ingwersen 1992, 1996), but it is still uncommon to distinguish between information retrieval and document retrieval, and this leads to a denial of the complicated semiotic and socio-linguistic problems connected with subject searching in document databases."[Brier, Soren *Cybersemiotics: Why Information Is Not Enough!*. 2nd. University of Toronto Press, 2008.]

02. "Some activities have or use information that breaks down readily into subject areas, such as academic disciplines (especially the ‘harder’ or more formal ones), while others have and use information that may not be as readily classifiable (think of activities that deal with new or innovative products or processes, such as new marketing, engineering or medical techniques, to name only a few). The other way in which the nature of an activity can influence retrieval is in determining the level of exhaustivity needed for satisfactory retrieval."[Brier, Soren *Cybersemiotics: Why Information Is Not Enough!*. 2nd. University of Toronto Press, 2008.]

03. "It fails in this regard because it does not address the social and phenomenological aspects of cognition (‘becoming informed,’ in Buckland’s 1991 terminology), which is the bottom line of document mediation. This leads to serious doubts as to whether the scientific object exists in its postulated form of ‘objective information processing. ’ In his well-known analysis of the concept of information, Machlup (1983, 657) concludes that information should take as its starting point the human communicative situation."[Brier, Soren *Cybersemiotics: Why Information Is Not Enough!*. 2nd. University of Toronto Press, 2008.]

04. "I am not arguing that this has occurred (though Richman [1993] does so argue), but that potential biases in relevant indices could indeed have led to this result. In this type of setting, what may be most needed is not better control or fancy policies, but better information. Options here include provision of more realistic conversion of data to information, faster feedback of information, reduction of noise in the signal, removal of blocks to information flow, providing assistance in information encoding or decoding, and disambiguating 198 Scientific discovery in practice symbols."[Loehle, Craig *Becoming a Successful Scientist: Strategic Thinking for Scientific Discovery*. Cambridge University Press, 2010.]

05. "“Information” in a post-Shannonian sense also figures in sociology (in the work of Niklas Luhmann or Harold Garfinkel) and in various iterations of the concept of the “information society” (the term makes its first appearance in Masuda Yoneji’s 1976 The Information Society as Post-industrial Society; by 2003, it was the theme for a United Nations–s ponsored World Summit in Geneva). “Information” is a major theme in the field of library science (and the schools of information that foster it); it circulates around the edges of a wide variety of media theory; and it makes its appearance in contemporary anxieties about the rise of Big Data, the promise and threat of the information  ix x TRANSLATORS’ INTRODUCTION “cloud,” and the rise of quantification as a mode of social dominance and control. 1 Despite various attempts to produce a “unified theory of information” (Hofkirchner) or to define it as a single overarching philosophical concept (Capurro, Floridi), this cacophony can hardly be said to have constituted itself as a single field."[Janich, Peter, Eric Hayot, and Lea Pao *What Is Information?*. Univ Of Minnesota Press, 2018.]

06. "However, these attempts were almost always designed to capture the semantic content of linguistic structures and are of no help in the analysis of genetic information. Starting in the mid-1990s, there has been considerable skepticism, at least among philosophers, about the role of “information” in genetics. For some, genetic information is no more than a metaphor masquerading as a theoretical concept (Sarkar, 1996a,b; Griffiths, 2001). According to these criticisms, even the most charitable attitude toward the use of “information” in genetics can only provide a defense of its use in the 1960s, in the context of prokaryotic genetics (i. e. , the genetics of organisms without compartmentalized nuclei in their cells)."[Hitchcock, Christopher *Contemporary Debates in Philosophy of Science*. Malden, MA: Blackwell Pub, 2004.]

07. "Thus preferred usage would be to talk of a communicant as knowledgeable rather than talking of his knowledge. Garfinkel makes a plea for helpful discussion from the seminar on this point. He is trying to resolve a dilemma—between information as a momentary product of experience and information as an a-temporal sum of things experienced. The idea of information as a judgment according to criteria, and not just an experience is important. Garfinkel (159) treats “memory,” which is an information storage process, “as a describable set of operations by which a previous meaningful experience is reproduced or re-presented. ” What should concern us as a research question, he says, is what “conditions of social structure” will “give us probabilities of a certain kind of re-creation. ” Part VIII: Kinds of Information A number of different kinds of information are discussed in this part."[Garfinkel, Harold, and Anne Rawls (ed.) *Toward a Sociological Theory of Information*. Paradigm, 2008.]

08. "I will leave aside Information and Myth 3 here the fact that in an information society we also talk about political and psychological aspects of information hegemony, about information as an economic good or a factor of production, about the survival value of the information gap, and so on. There exist any number of books that treat the question “what is information?” within the broadest possible framework, moving from the classical history of the concept to the invention of the information sciences and the conceptual adoption of information in fields like physics, psychology, biology, cybernetics, economics, and sociology, and thence to the development of the information society and the political and ethical questions it implies. 4 Between the extremes of encyclopedic comprehensiveness and the narrowness of a focus on a single topic lies the question of the origin of the myth of information as a natural object, the countless popular narratives that support it, and their widespread consequences."[Janich, Peter, Eric Hayot, and Lea Pao *What Is Information?*. Univ Of Minnesota Press, 2018.]

09. "Otherwise, possession of it would be no advantage. Therefore, information must be something that can be stored, owned, lost, and found. It must be capable of being priced. It must be transformable—and possible to speak of as differentially distributed across a population. If everybody has it—then it is not new—not information. It must also be possible to speak of it as having a private or a public, or an anonymous, or an identified character, and so on. Several of the characteristics Garfinkel lists relate to completeness of information. And, I think here he is being sensitive to a fundamental contradiction in the conventional theories of information. A rational actor with complete information is assumed—and yet information is the unknown—the new—the anomaly. In actual practice, actors never have complete information—and yet are capable of handling and recognizing information. In order to overcome this contradiction, information must be capable of being incomplete, or lost, or changed."[Garfinkel, Harold, and Anne Rawls (ed.) *Toward a Sociological Theory of Information*. Paradigm, 2008.]

10. "If some notion of information is to be used to illuminate or reform our understanding of propositional attitudes then a concept such as knowledge (which presupposes belief) should not figure in the account of information. Dretske's gloss on the meaning of k implies that, in the limiting case, there need be no 22 Oxford, 1981. Introduction 17 knowledge of the source present, and this might seem to eliminate the circularity."[Robinson, Howard *Objections to Physicalism*. 1993.]

11. "It seems clear, therefore, that everyday language is bound up with two different traditions: one the tradition of linguistic communication (which requires an attention to the functionality of information), the other the tradition of information technology focused on processes of transforming, coding, and decoding. These telecommunicative processes have a structure, but that structure does not have to be linguistic, meaningful, or capable of being true or false. ON THE AGE OF CONTRADICTION The myths and icons of naturalized information we have seen so far might seem to suggest that the newly germinating disciplines of the twentieth century—c ybernetics or the mathematical theory of information, or their borrowings in biology, chemistry, and physics—a re 10 Information and Myth fundamentally responsible for this interesting ambiguity in ordinary speech."[Janich, Peter, Eric Hayot, and Lea Pao *What Is Information?*. Univ Of Minnesota Press, 2018.]

12. "Even contemporary approaches that treat social aspects of information as important, tend to treat the social as something that happens to and with information, rather than treating social processes as essential to the constitution of information as such. Garfinkel’s argument, by contrast, is distinctive in insisting that information is constituted—not just interpreted—or symbolically represented and exchanged—but actually constituted as information by the social (cooperatively ordered) aspects of the situated social orders in which it occurs."[Garfinkel, Harold, and Anne Rawls (ed.) *Toward a Sociological Theory of Information*. Paradigm, 2008.]

13. "Finally, the Dictionary of Computers, Data Processing, and Telecommunications (Rosenberg 1984) treats information semantically and data formally. 21. The question of whether data and information consist of form or content is not the only point of dispute in the literature on these concepts. Some authors use the concepts interchangeably; others take pains to distinguish them."[Von Eckardt, Barbara *What is cognitive science?*. MIT Press, 1995.]

14. "And this is so in spite of any effort to shorten distances between the notion of information and the notion of point of view. Even if we adopt a very general and wide-ranging notion of information, according to which it is possible to speak of things as the non-conceptual information linked to analogical representations, and we assume that points of view have a certain informational structure, points of view cannot be reducible to information. They cannot be reducible to information because points of view include many components which are not reducible to information."[Magnani, Lorenzo *Model-based reasoning in science and technology : theoretical and cognitive issues*. Springer, 2013.]

15. "Similarly, what is appropriate data may be deﬁned very narrowly by a speciﬁc ﬁeld of enquiry. This means that a tradition or habit will prevail in what counts as correct data. It should not be assumed, however, that data are static. The information collected by a single instrument may be capable of conversion into other data, other information, using different analytical procedures. Velocity measurements of a single point of ﬂow may appear to produce no pattern when plotted against time. Their subsequent analysis using a running average may highlight patterns that were not visible before."[Inkpen, Robert, and Graham Wilson *Science, Philosophy and Physical Geography*. New Ed. Routledge, 2004.]