Created: 2025-12-19 15:32:52
Origin: suggested
Selected: Today, iconographers Space and sculpture in the Classic Maya city acknowledge more readily that the association between image and text in Mesoamerica did not necessarily parallel that of Europe (Miller 1989: 177). “Mesoamerica[n] . . . systems [of communication] do not allow for an easy distinction between pure text or pure image” (Baddeley 1983: 56), as suggested by the Nahuatl word tlacuiloliztli, which means both “to paint” and “to write” (Boone 1994: 3). Some scholars have sought a “reformation of the definition of writing that considers both verbal and nonverbal systems of graphic communication” (Boone 1994: 4).[Parmington, Alexander *Space and Sculpture in the Classic Maya City*. Cambridge University Press, 2011.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Today, iconographers Space and sculpture in the Classic Maya city acknowledge more readily that the association between image and text in Mesoamerica did not necessarily parallel that of Europe (Miller 1989: 177). “Mesoamerica[n] . . . systems [of communication] do not allow for an easy distinction between pure text or pure image” (Baddeley 1983: 56), as suggested by the Nahuatl word tlacuiloliztli, which means both “to paint” and “to write” (Boone 1994: 3). Some scholars have sought a “reformation of the definition of writing that considers both verbal and nonverbal systems of graphic communication” (Boone 1994: 4)."[Parmington, Alexander *Space and Sculpture in the Classic Maya City*. Cambridge University Press, 2011.]

02. "This extra layer brings to the fore the very impenetrability of the signifier – its construction from real traces – disrupting every signifier’s ‘identity’ with itself, but leaving them just the ‘same’, le même, as opposed to l’autre, the other. Repetition ‘permits us efficaciously, rigorously, that is, discreetly, to exit from closure [. . . ]from the identical into the same [hors de l’identique dans le même]’ (WD: 373). Deconstruction’s ink is drawn from the tain of the mirror reflecting on the text, and it refuses to reflect the text back to itself exactly as it sees itself. 30 It contaminates the text with the meaning that its writing was designed to occlude, precisely by showing that its text is a cover, a density rather than the absolute translucency it purports to be."[Lewis, Michael *Derrida and Lacan: Another Writing*. Edinburgh University Press, 2008.]

03. "But in writing, by reference to the graphic text, one can (quite) clearly distinguish them. Thus, the syntax of lalangue amounts to an explicit incursion of the graphic into the linguistic, as Derrida says of ‘différance’ (cf. MP: 3). It is a moment in which archi-writing shows itself in speech. The failure to communicate: the sinthome Archi-writing, therefore, is the bar that joins one signifier to another."[Lewis, Michael *Derrida and Lacan: Another Writing*. Edinburgh University Press, 2008.]

04. "Knappett, C. and L. Malafouris eds. 2008. Material Agency: Towards a Non-Anthropocentric Approach. New York: Springer. Lakoff, G. and M. Johnson 1999. Philosophy in the Flesh: The Embodied Mind and its Challenge to Western Thought. New York: Basic Books. Laning, E. 1971. The Act of Drawing. New York: McGraw Hill. Lapacherie, J. -G. 1994. Typographic characters: tension between text and drawing, trans. A. Lehmann. Yale French Studies 84: 63–77. Latour, B."[Ingold, Tim *Making: Anthropology, Archaeology, Art and Architecture*. Routledge, 2013.]

05. "The subsidiaries composing metaphors and poems are joined together by an imaginative performance much richer than any imaginative action required for linking a word to its meaning. To reduce a metaphor or a poem to its disconnected subsidiaries is to extinguish the vision which linked them to their integrated meaning in a metaphor or poem. What is left is but a caricature of their true meaning. This is, we hold, why Max Black found he could not, without loss of meaning, explicitly specify all the "relations" between the two elements in a metaphor."[Polanyi, Michael, and Harry Prosch *Meaning*. University of Chicago Press, 1976.]

06. "But what they all showed, each case in an importantly distinctive way, is that, sometimes like the steady-growth evolution of a language- Verbal Creativity and the Expansion of Artistic Style 167 Figure 6. 5 László Moholy-Nagy, Untitled (Looking Down from the Wireless Tower, Berlin), 1928 © 2015 Artists Rights Society (ARS), New York / VG Bild-Kunst, Bonn game, and sometimes like an inspired burst of Varnedoe’s William Webb Ellis, demarcations are contextual, rules await possibility-enhancing creative reformulation, and coherence – often a function of relational understanding and newly perceived interweaving linkages – does not necessarily reveal itself on first meeting. 18 18 Because of this, difficulty itself as an aesthetic feature has become a distinct subject in the evolving critical analysis of modernist content in art and literature; for a helpful introduction and guide, see Van Zuylen (1998)."[Grève, Sebastian Sunday, and Jakub Mácha (eds.) *Wittgenstein and the Creativity of Language*. Palgrave Macmillan UK, 2016.]

07. "As the referential void in the realm of worlds gradually begins to gain substance, the given corporeality within the realm of words begins to wane, thinning out to become an abstraction. This motion takes place simultaneously as each series - of words and worlds - is at pains to convert abserice into presence out of its own resources and according to its own rules, that is, the rules of either height or depth. Across the gap between word and world, a euphemistic reference circulates and carries forward the conversion from absence into presence."[Dimitrova, Zornitsa *Literary Worlds and Deleuze: Expression as Mimesis and Event*. Lexington Books, 2016.]

08. "You see from this relatively simple reflection that the fact of language mastery demands a theory that strictly differentiates the concrete vocal-graphic event {événement) from its never realizable and, to this extent, essentially ideal nature as a sign. For the sign by no means connects, as one might at first believe, the vocal-sensual with the nonsensual spiritual aspect of a word; rather it connects, as Saussure expresses it, an acoustical image {une image acoustique) with a concept {concept). An acoustical image does not simply mean a sound."[Frank, Manfred, Sabine Wilke, and Richard Gray *What Is Neostructuralism?*. Univ of Minnesota Pr, 1989.]

09. "Deconstruction demonstrates this by linking together the various contexts in which a certain undecidable word accrues two opposed significations. Deconstruction does not propose its doubled, minor reading as the correct one but has to maintain the absolute possibility of both readings simultaneously, to show that the text is structurally ambiguous, dependent upon its language for the actual meaning which it claims to express, each context dependent upon the exclusion of all other contexts. By exposing an alternative meaning that can be read into the same signifier, deconstruction demonstrates that meaning is not something that lies at the origin of a text, but that the original authorial intention itself depended upon something beyond intention, a system of language and a symbolic tradition which cannot be chosen, but which infinitely overflows the finite capacity of any human subject."[Lewis, Michael *Derrida and Lacan: Another Writing*. Edinburgh University Press, 2008.]

10. "Thanks to—or perhaps due to—such circumstances, design seeks new ways of thinking and conceptualizing, as well as of producing objects and inciting feasibility. The “informationalization” of societal orders and the scope of applicability of computer-aided design tools are opening up a whole range of new manners of how to perceive the temporality and spatiality we inhabit. Algorithmic design is based on new parameters: design of ideas, narratives, procedures, populations, digital production, and new understandings of materiality."[Hovestadt, Ludger, and Vera Buhlmann *EigenArchitecture*. Ambra Verlag, 2013.]

11. "Structure cannot guarantee the continuity between the (hypothetical) meaning inscribed in it and always already past in the act of language use, and the new meaning acquired in the individual use: this lack of a criterion for semantic identification, a lack produced by the individual, refers the process of meaning attribution to the infinite (because incalculably open) procedure of hermeneutics (in the romantic sense of the word). One can never definitively make a judgment about the unity of a sign, a sentence, a text, or a symbolically interacting culture, for this unity is constantly produced anew in use and in understanding."[Frank, Manfred, Sabine Wilke, and Richard Gray *What Is Neostructuralism?*. Univ of Minnesota Pr, 1989.]

12. "Within this framework, theater no longer needs clearly defined holistic figures represented by actors. Nor does it require the category of character. As the moment of interaction becomes supra-linguistic and moves into the ritualistic communion between stage and spectatorship, it can even take place without the articulation of dialogue. 16 The stage also need not be a dramatic space that hearkens back to the spatial representation of an actuallocale. The goal being "immediacy," the metamorphosis of representation into presentation 17 is transported into audiences and made an experiential unit: "Instead of a linguistic re-presentation of facts and meanings, we find a disposition and a position of tones, tonalities, words, sentences, sounds which are not so much controlled by meaning but exposed as a material open to manifold possibilities of understanding/J' (Lehmann 2007,50)."[Dimitrova, Zornitsa *Literary Worlds and Deleuze: Expression as Mimesis and Event*. Lexington Books, 2016.]

13. "If those same primitive elements are the osseous fixtures in the Flesh-Garment, Language, – then are Metaphors its muscles and tissues and living integuments. (Thomas Carlyle, Sartor Resartus, Ch. I, xi, ll. 75–80; Carlyle, 2000 [1833–4]: 56) It is this synthesis of the heterogeneous that brings narrative close to metaphor. In both cases, the new thing – the as yet unsaid, the unwritten – springs up in language. Here a living metaphor, that is, a 148 Narrative, Perception, Language, and Faith new pertinence in the predication, there a feigned plot, that is, a new congruence in the organization of events."[Wright, Edmond *Narrative, Perception Language and Faith*. 2006.]

14. "Along with its actualization within a series, an event virtually extends across an infinity of series, modifying their senses. Thus, each u new" event is a retro active and a pro active reformulation, a reconstitution, and a reshuffling in the existing series that nuances the series further or endows them with new significance. What events nevertheless do, however, is-Ieave marks on the habituaI fabric of literary worlds. Despite aH claims that language is a "tool" of representation, a fossilized capture of an expressive motion long-since immobilized, here we see that language need not crack open in order to bring forth its supra-representational constituent."[Dimitrova, Zornitsa *Literary Worlds and Deleuze: Expression as Mimesis and Event*. Lexington Books, 2016.]

15. "Such antiquated map-language, by necessity, must lead us to semantic disasters, as it imposes and reflects its unnatural structure on the structure of our doctrines and institutions. Obviously, under such linguistic conditions, a science of man was impossible; differing in structure from our nervous system, such language must also disorganize the functioning of the latter and lead us away from sanity. This once understood, we shall see clearly that researches into the structure of language and the adjustment of this structure to the structure of the world and ourselves, as given by science at each date, must lead to new languages, new doctrines, institutions. , and, in fine, may result in a new and saner civilization, involving new s. r which may be called the scientific era."[Korzybski, Alfred *Science and Sanity: An Introduction to Non-Aristotelian Systems and General Semantics*. 5th. Institute of General Semantics, 1995.]