Created: 2025-11-08 14:12:40
Origin: searched
Selected: In this view, the design process builds information into the structure of the molecule. But this view would not make sense if we understood the molecule to be simply a discrete and bounded entity. For if molecules were simply discrete entities, how could one then distinguish between a molecule which embodies little information and the ‘same’ molecule with the same structure of elements that embodies a great deal of information?In Whitehead’s and Stengers’s terms it is possible to give a different and more precise meaning to the idea of a material object being rich in information.[Fraser, Mariam, Sarah Kember, and Celia Lury *Inventive Life: Approaches to the New Vitalism*. SAGE Publications Ltd, 2006.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Dividing the classes into these groupings makes the information more specialized for each application. Examples are the Shared Building Elements section, including information shared by domain or application models, and the Shared Building Services Elements, including information needed for interoperability such as that for heating, ventilating, and air conditioning (HVAC). The Domain layer consists of extensions that represent application specific information. These Interoperability in Building Construction Using Exchange Standards 581 “Application extensions facilitate exchange with application models that have a software architecture different from that of IFCs (Bazjanac 1998). ” The domains include: Building Controls, Plumbing Fire Protection, Structural Element, Structural Analysis, HVAC, Electrical, Architecture, Construction Management, and Facilities Management."[Smith, Ian F.C. *Intelligent Computing in Engineering and Architecture: 13th EG-ICE Workshop 2006, Ascona, Switzerland, June 25-30, 2006, Revised Selected Papers*. Springer, 2006.]

02. "Other applications of domain knowledge represented in the form of taxonomy have also been reported [14,15,16]. Fig. 1. Unstructured Data Integration System [12] Fig. 2. Definitions of recall and precision in Information Retrieval (IR) Data Analysis on Complicated Construction Data Sources 643 Our research in [17] used thesaurus as a more elaborate form of ontology to help organize domain concepts related to a given A/E/C product."[Smith, Ian F.C. *Intelligent Computing in Engineering and Architecture: 13th EG-ICE Workshop 2006, Ascona, Switzerland, June 25-30, 2006, Revised Selected Papers*. Springer, 2006.]

03. "Figure 3 summarizes the mechanics of the novel information retrieval model: Fig. 3. On-site Information Retrieval Model 3. 1 Retrieval of as-built Information and Objects Recognition This component aims to detect all possible construction-related visual characteristics within the image content, such as surface materials and object shapes, and the relative position of each in reference to the image plane."[Smith, Ian F.C. *Intelligent Computing in Engineering and Architecture: 13th EG-ICE Workshop 2006, Ascona, Switzerland, June 25-30, 2006, Revised Selected Papers*. Springer, 2006.]

04. "© 2011 Jason Valdina/Received. com. 229 Building Information Modelling above: GRO Architects, diagram showing the traditional architectural design process, 2008. In traditional architectural practice, a linear exchange of analogue information facilitated interpretation and the need for clariﬁcation on site."[Carpo, Mario *The digital turn in architecture 1990-2010*. Chichester: Wiley, 2012.]

05. "Their brief sketch-review will be instructive in bringing the characteristics of the informatic dimension and operation of meaning more clearly into view. First, Lash’s ‘critique of information’ highlights the duality of meaning in focus here. Lash argues that there are two types of information in the information society. The first is the production of discursive or analytic knowledge which replaces labour production (2002: 141–4)."[Fraser, Mariam, Sarah Kember, and Celia Lury *Inventive Life: Approaches to the New Vitalism*. SAGE Publications Ltd, 2006.]

06. "In this view, the design process builds information into the structure of the molecule. But this view would not make sense if we understood the molecule to be simply a discrete and bounded entity. For if molecules were simply discrete entities, how could one then distinguish between a molecule which embodies little information and the ‘same’ molecule with the same structure of elements that embodies a great deal of information?In Whitehead’s and Stengers’s terms it is possible to give a different and more precise meaning to the idea of a material object being rich in information."[Fraser, Mariam, Sarah Kember, and Celia Lury *Inventive Life: Approaches to the New Vitalism*. SAGE Publications Ltd, 2006.]

07. "the theoretical work on information architectures and information spaces by Benyon (2004) of particular interest. According to Benyon’s model on information architectures and design of information spaces (2004) we can, given one basic set of information (e. g. hours, minutes and seconds) in many cases represent this in several different ways (the typical analogue clock vs. a typical digital clock is a good example of this difference). This is also true when it comes to the relation between materials and textures."[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

08. "This point is even more poignant if we consider that most of these elements making a building are not designed by architects themselves and their assembly is performed by other professionals. This analogy could also hold true for designing with CAD, as this process can be accomplished by combining architectural elements existing both as textual and as graphic information, as it happens in Building Information Modeling (BIM). 1 Here too hierarchy of information plays a crucial role to produce coherent designs accessible to the various professions participating in the construction process."[Bottazzi, Roberto *Digital Architecture Beyond Computers: Fragments of a Cultural History of Computational Design*. Hardcover. Bloomsbury Visual Arts, 2018.]

09. "But to broaden the context and see code as a subset of enunciation (a key term for Lazzarato) is still to anthropomorphize it too much. I am still rather fond of a term Galloway has used else-where—allegorithm—an allegory that takes an algorithmic form. 23 What does it mean to visualize data?What is data?In simple terms, maybe data are “the givens,” whereas information might mean to give (in turn) some form to what is given. Data is empirical; information is aesthetic. But data visualization mostly pictures its own rules of representation."[Wark, Mckenzie *General Intellects - Twenty-One Thinkers for the Twenty First Century*. Verso Books, 2017.]

10. "Because the system can only recognize well-structured data, e. g. , features stored in databases, only the features shown in grey are included in our model. This example illustrates our modeling assumption that domain experts’ model of relevant features are often abstract semantic concepts that depend on descriptive features that are available in low level databases. Massing, for instance, is a feature that differentiates buildings by their structural size information. In our information sources Massing is represented as multiple features, height, area, periphery, distance to nearest neighbor, etc."[Van Leeuwen, Jos P., and Harry J.P. Timmermans *Innovations in Design & Decision Support Systems in Architecture and Urban Planning*. Springer, 2006.]

11. "This information was useful in helping neighbors use the tools to describe setting, evaluate situations, and prescribe redevelopment interventions to resolve problems. In this manner, the information system may be thought as the initial notion of what later became the EDC’s reflection space (Arias, 1994). Figure 3. 8: The Information Tool: predecessor of the EDC’s reflection space: (a) the digital base map of COLE on a property-by-property basis with (b) the 3D visualization capabilities of different types of information to indicate a priority area for intervention."[Arias, Ernesto G., Hal Eden, and Gerhard Fischer *Envisionment and Discovery Collaboratory*. Morgan & Claypool Publishers, 2015.]

12. "There are sequences of 0s and 1s, without any precise meaning: they could be characters in a text, songs, 3d models, etc. Groups of bits form patterns used as codes. Structured and coded strings of bits are finally defined as data, whereas information is generally defined as data in context. In this “epistemological chain” of digital data, information marks the threshold in which the material properties are stored in the hardware can designed. This specific act is performed through algorithms which allow information to be “interpreted, manipulated, and filled with meaning” (Ross 1968, p. 11; quoted in Cardodo Llach 2012, p. 42)."[Bottazzi, Roberto *Digital Architecture Beyond Computers: Fragments of a Cultural History of Computational Design*. Hardcover. Bloomsbury Visual Arts, 2018.]

13. "Dretske establishes the mathematization of information by communications theory on this basis. What is measured between the 0 and 1 is not the information itself or the knowledge it generates but the material and practical context in which that knowledge and information take place: To know, or to have received information, is to have eliminated all relevant alternative possibilities. These concepts are absolute. What is not absolute is the way we apply them to concrete situations – the way we determine what will qualify as a relevant alternative. … Knowledge exhibits [a] pragmatic character because a communication system, any communication system, presupposes a distinction between a source about which information is received and a channel over which this information is received."[Fraser, Mariam, Sarah Kember, and Celia Lury *Inventive Life: Approaches to the New Vitalism*. SAGE Publications Ltd, 2006.]

14. "Computational media can make information relevant to the task at hand thereby (1) reducing the information overload problem and (2) the need for decontextualized learning. They provide the foundation for all “on demand” notions (such as learning on demand, using information on demand, detail on demand). Intertwining Problem Framing and Problem Solving DODEs are significant not only as technical achievements in computer science, but also as examples of principled analyses of helping humans to cope with complex design problems."[Arias, Ernesto G., Hal Eden, and Gerhard Fischer *Envisionment and Discovery Collaboratory*. Morgan & Claypool Publishers, 2015.]

15. "Galloway’s example here is the visualization of the internet itself, of which there are many examples, all of which look pretty much the same. “Data have no necessary information” (83). But the information that is applied to it seems over and over to be the same, a sort of hub-and-spoke cloud aesthetic, which draws connections but leaves out protocols, labor or power. Maybe one form of what Dean calls the decline in symbolic efficiency is a parallel increase in aesthetic information that goes hand in hand with a decline in information aesthetics."[Wark, Mckenzie *General Intellects - Twenty-One Thinkers for the Twenty First Century*. Verso Books, 2017.]