Created: 2025-11-15 02:15:10
Origin: searched
Selected: Now, continuity of motions is a feature of action by contact, on which the localizability of causal interactions is grounded, but it is also a feature of time. As mentioned above, one of the reasons why the dynamical approach presents itself as essentially different from, and more adequate than, connectionism is that it makes reference to continuous time, whereas networks and their learning algorithms are indexed by discrete time, which is not the time of natural phenomena, if not by the mere fact that the “clock” pace varies for different systems.[(Editor), Alberto Peruzzi *Mind and Causality*. John Benjamins Publishing Company, 2004.]

--- Context List ---
01. "For one thing, no 2D entity can be a physical, material object. Therefore, it may be said, a succession of 2D movie or TV images can be at best a poor surrogate of motion. On the other hand, a succession of instantaneous 4D temporal parts might perfectly well represent motion, if motion consists precisely in two objects being a certain distance apart at one time (temporal part A), and a different distance apart at another time (temporal part B)."[McCall, Storrs *The Consistency of Arithmetic: And Other Essays*. New York, N.Y: Oxford University Press, 2014.]

02. "Or again, though the details of this would be technically complicated, we could envisage a case in which the external item corresponding to physical space was a twodimensional sense-field organized as if it were three-dimensional. Nor are we restricted to examples in which the discrepancy between how things really are and how they empirically seem relates to 299 Succinct Case for Idealism ~ 0\ -. ·u G Time 1 Time 2 Time 3 Time 4 ~ 0\ U-+· Gc) G TimeS Time 6 Fig. 13. 1. The Oxford-Cambridge case: an illustrative example."[Robinson, Howard *Objections to Physicalism*. 1993.]

03. "The reifying fiction of “Time as Such” is further entrenched in linguistic structure, in “Passage” constructions, and idiomatic usage, in which “time is money”, “time is scarce”, people are time-poor, and time endlessly presses up against us. The symbolic cognitive artifacts of clock and calendar have changed our minds along with the niches our minds inhabit, and there is no going back in time. And yet, a moment’s reflection will tell us that the event-based habitus of the Amondawa, however strange it seems to us when we first encounter it, is the one that has formed the matrix of temporal experience for most human societies."[Magnani, Lorenzo *Model-based reasoning in science and technology : theoretical and cognitive issues*. Springer, 2013.]

04. "Now, continuity of motions is a feature of action by contact, on which the localizability of causal interactions is grounded, but it is also a feature of time. As mentioned above, one of the reasons why the dynamical approach presents itself as essentially different from, and more adequate than, connectionism is that it makes reference to continuous time, whereas networks and their learning algorithms are indexed by discrete time, which is not the time of natural phenomena, if not by the mere fact that the “clock” pace varies for different systems."[(Editor), Alberto Peruzzi *Mind and Causality*. John Benjamins Publishing Company, 2004.]

05. "This is so. Nevertheless, can be interpreted in such a way as to restore the integrity of the translation scheme. may be understood as a 3D object which exists only at time t and no other time. It is not an enduring 3D The 3D/4D Controversy 135 object. It is an instantaneous one, a collection of particles in a spatial configuration which constitutes object O at time t. The upshot of this is that the intertranslatability of 3D and 4D descriptions rests ultimately upon entities which can be described indifferently as “instantaneous 4D temporal parts”, or “3D objects which exist at one time only”."[McCall, Storrs *The Consistency of Arithmetic: And Other Essays*. New York, N.Y: Oxford University Press, 2014.]

06. "Cultural conceptions of time, however, vary considerably. I present anthropological linguistic data from a study that my colleagues and I conducted in an indigenous Amazonian community. Concepts of time are cultural and historical constructions, constituted by schematic time interval systems, and embodied in language and culture dependent symbolic cognitive artefacts. “Living in time”, I contend, is to live in a model. Time is both artifactual model and cognitive niche, made possible by the wider biocultural niche of language."[Magnani, Lorenzo *Model-based reasoning in science and technology : theoretical and cognitive issues*. Springer, 2013.]

07. "Achilles’ motions provide the (only) scansion of time. Troy and the Trojan war (in the sense relevant here) lie outside the (space of the) world – they exist in the realm of myth. Their internal time contributes to an extraordinary poetic effect. Turing and Homer are as one in this respect: the time characteristic of 1930s formalism is the time of algebraic-formal construction – the absolute time of a formal mechanism lying outside space, the time of “calculation-in-itself ” is the time of one step after another in a void."[(Editor), Alberto Peruzzi *Mind and Causality*. John Benjamins Publishing Company, 2004.]

08. "By this, I mean precisely that notion of time, familiar to us as much as it was to Isaac Newton, that metaphorically situates or encompasses the events that occur “in time”, and their time of occurrence, analogously to the way that space situates or encompasses objects and their locations. The universality of concepts or categories of space and time has been a key trope of Euro-American thought since the philosophical reflections of Immanuel Kant [13]. Present-day cognitive science has adopted this hypothesis (although, in many cases, the hypothesis has been more of an unexamined assumption), postulating the existence of a universal cognitive domain (TIME) that (equally universally) recruits its structuring resources from the cognitive domain of SPACE."[Magnani, Lorenzo *Model-based reasoning in science and technology : theoretical and cognitive issues*. Springer, 2013.]

09. "Consider two photos of the young and the old Einstein. What makes them similar?They occupy proximate positions in one's facial state space. Finally, let us turn to a motor example, and let us consider one's "body image": one's continuously updated sense of one's overall bodily configura- w Representation and computation in neural networks STEP CYCLE: 357 FELINE HIND LEG SKELETAL STATE SPACE Figure 11 tion in space. That configuration is constituted by the simultaneous position and tension of several hundreds of muscles, and one monitors it all quite successfully, to judge from the smooth coordination of most of one's movements."[(editor), Derek Partridge, and Yorick Wilks (editor) *The Foundations of Artificial Intelligence: A Sourcebook*. annotated edition. Cambridge University Press, 1990.]

10. "Nothing happens between one movement and another (to the left or right as the tape is scanned) nor can anything be said of their duration: these movements are the measure of time itself. This notion recalls the time of myth inscribed in Homer. To recall an analogy suggested by Bernard Teissier: during the Trojan War, time is marked by the sorties of Achilles from his tent. Achilles leaves his tent, something (the War) Space, time and cognition  happens; he re-enters his tent, everything stops – time stops."[(Editor), Alberto Peruzzi *Mind and Causality*. John Benjamins Publishing Company, 2004.]

11. "IV. The Concept of Communication To make this concept capable of bearing up under thoroughgoing criticism would require that we prepare its introduction by an excursion into the various meanings of “Time” as a structure that is constitutive of experience. There are three such constitutive “structures”: duration, phenomenal time, and standard or clock time. The necessity of handling them will only be implied in this brief display of wares; the rest we’ll leave to the discussion of this paper."[Garfinkel, Harold, and Anne Rawls (ed.) *Toward a Sociological Theory of Information*. Paradigm, 2008.]

12. "And when we do, Taylor argued, we will see that time and space are more analogous than they initially seemed. To illustrate. Our true statement about space is this:Some object moves back and forth in space. Before we can reverse the references to time and space in this statement, we need to locate all those references, including any that are not completely explicit. For instance, the word “moves” conceals a reference to time. When these references are made explicit, our statement becomes:Moving back and forth in space: Some object is at spatial point p1 at time t1, point p2 at time t2, and point p1 at time t3."[(editor), Susan Schneider *Science Fiction and Philosophy: From Time Travel to Superintelligence*. Wiley-Blackwell, 2009.]

13. "Of these modes of division, only the second is appropriate here. Since each universe-picture of Theory D is a picture of the universe at a time, and since time itself is only specifiable within a coordinate frame, we shall want each universe-picture to be a picture of the universe at a certain frame-time. Past and present events constitute the trunk of the universe-tree, while different possible courses of future events occupy different branches. It might be objected that, in making each universe-picture of Theory D relative not only to a time but also to a coordinate frame, we have given up any claim to be presenting a theory of objective time flow."[McCall, Storrs *The Consistency of Arithmetic: And Other Essays*. New York, N.Y: Oxford University Press, 2014.]

14. "One might disambiguate the above situation by making the representation of the hate relation more specific. That is, one might introduce one node for Art-subject-hates-Ike-object, one node for Art-subject-hates-Neal-object, one node for Fred-subject-hates-Ike-object, and one node for Fred-subject-hates-Neal-object. Then when one wanted to represent that Art hates Ike and Fred hates Neal, one would activate only the first and the fourth of these nodes rather than the second and the third. But, as Fodor and Pylyshyn (1988, p. 24) so aptly put it, this proposal "requires rather a lot of microfeatures [i. e."[Von Eckardt, Barbara *What is cognitive science?*. MIT Press, 1995.]

15. "If the stages satisfy the conditions given in my circular explanation with respect to the assignment of coordinates, then both candidates succeed: the stages do comprise a person and the assignment is his personal time. I have argued so far that what goes on in a time travel story may be a possible pattern of events in four-dimensional space-time with no extra time dimension; that it may be correct to regard the scattered stages of the alleged time traveler as comprising a single person; and that we may legitimately assign to those stages and their surroundings a personal time order that disagrees sometimes with their order in external time."[(editor), Susan Schneider *Science Fiction and Philosophy: From Time Travel to Superintelligence*. Wiley-Blackwell, 2009.]