Created: 2025-12-23 19:02:27
Origin: searched
Selected: One hastens to add that looking like a sleekly beautiful machine is for Corbusier a new way to look like architectural art: the famous slogan is after all a figure of speech, coming from a new aesthetic place but aesthetic nevertheless. This was not exactly Loos’s way of stating the specially qualified non-art case for architecture, but it is effectively something he in some sense stated first. That ‘Ornament and Crime’ always turns out to be more challenging than one expects, concerns the difficulty of breaking through conventional presuppositions about ornament as necessarily a refinement, to which even the Papuan-Maori analogue for the cultural ‘stragglers’ of modern times is subordinate.[Loos, Adolf *Ornament and Crime*. Penguin Books Ltd, 2019.]

--- Context List ---
01. "One hastens to add that looking like a sleekly beautiful machine is for Corbusier a new way to look like architectural art: the famous slogan is after all a figure of speech, coming from a new aesthetic place but aesthetic nevertheless. This was not exactly Loos’s way of stating the specially qualified non-art case for architecture, but it is effectively something he in some sense stated first. That ‘Ornament and Crime’ always turns out to be more challenging than one expects, concerns the difficulty of breaking through conventional presuppositions about ornament as necessarily a refinement, to which even the Papuan-Maori analogue for the cultural ‘stragglers’ of modern times is subordinate."[Loos, Adolf *Ornament and Crime*. Penguin Books Ltd, 2019.]

02. "It is clear from the archives of building applications in Brussels that retailers were investing all century long in improving the appearance of both their shop windows and their shop frontages. Advances in technology created new possibilities for increasingly impressive shop windows and spectacular window displays. 19 The archives of building plans at the Brussels City Archives are filled with building applications for altering shop windows and shop fronts and in travel guides there is talk of ‘élégantes vitrines’. 20 The rise of the art of window dressing and the deployment of architecture as an advertising strategy is usually associated with department stores."[Furnée, Jan Hein, and Clé Lesger (eds.) *The Landscape of Consumption: Shopping Streets and Cultures in Western Europe, 1600–1900*. Palgrave Macmillan UK, 2014.]

03. "The geographical methods deployed here produced invaluable new histor ical information, without which none of the hypotheses I have proposed here would be possible. Exploring the spatial organization of everyday palace life involved mining traditional sources for new kinds of empirical information, whether these be linguistic data, aerial photographs, archival photographs, the mapping of landscape details, or architectural analysis. In so doing, new empirical finds were made, including the large indigo dyeing yard, the "women's path" leading into the palace from the market, the sacred baobab tree and well outside the prejihadic king's quarters, the sixteenth-century eunuch colony, and so on."[Nast, Heidi J. *Concubines and Power: Five Hundred Years in a Northern Nigerian Palace*. Univ Of Minnesota Press, 2004.]

04. "Heyden (1838–1902), presented their study for a semi-permanent exhibition building in Berlin as part of the annual exhibition of the Academy of Arts (Figure 2. 3). The proposal was based on, and attempted to synthesize, exhibition models first developed in Paris 1867 (an ellipse with concentric and radial streets) and Vienna 1873 (a fishbone system with a central rotunda) in a new, semi-circular layout with ‘national streets’ and a monumental cupola building. Even if details remained to be discussed, the issue was clearly established as a matter for public debate."[(auth.), Alexander C. T. Geppert *Fleeting Cities: Imperial Expositions in Fin-de-Siècle Europe*. Palgrave Macmillan UK, 2010.]

05. "Radcliffe wrote about ‘small glass cupboards’, standing on the stoop. 32 Possibly influenced by British and French examples, the moveable showcases were increasingly integrated into the facade and increased in size. 33 Around 1825, this type of showcase was fairly common in a busy shopping street like Kalverstraat, as is clearly shown by a print of Kalverstraat published by Frans Buffa, which not coincidentally also shows Buffa’s own print shop (Figure 6. 2, right front). 34 The print shop itself had flat shop windows with bars supporting the glass panes, but on both the right and left sides of the street one can see numerous showcases which extend into the street and present themselves forcefully to the passers-by."[Furnée, Jan Hein, and Clé Lesger (eds.) *The Landscape of Consumption: Shopping Streets and Cultures in Western Europe, 1600–1900*. Palgrave Macmillan UK, 2014.]

06. "As we know, an arcade was an architectural construction centred on a street covered by a glazed roof and bordered by a series of buildings with identical facades. Those buildings accommodated shops and entertainment facilities on the ground floor and apartments on the upper floors. They were most often laid out to facilitate the movement of pedestrians through building blocs, thus alleviating the build-up of traffic in the jumble of city centre streets. They offered the possibility of walking amid a pleasant atmosphere and sumptuous architecture, sheltered from the hustle and bustle of the streets and from wind, rain and sun."[Furnée, Jan Hein, and Clé Lesger (eds.) *The Landscape of Consumption: Shopping Streets and Cultures in Western Europe, 1600–1900*. Palgrave Macmillan UK, 2014.]

07. "The Bauhaus building was a serious exercise in developing new ways of constructing and articulating functional space based on carefully devised architectural theories. Another great modernist architect, the Frenchman Le Corbusier, entertained similar ideas. True Art Deco architecture is different. It can look modern in style but its decoration is a vital and essential part of it. This can be in the form of wrought iron, coloured leaded glass or colourful tiles and faience, but, whatever it is, it is the ornamentation that makes buildings really look Art Deco."[Lemmen, Hans *Art Deco Tiles*. Shire Publications, 2012.]

08. "The digiterati blithely dismiss such warnings and continue into the new perceptual shift toward multiple, windowed, virtual realities. Often these new worlds look suspiciously like typing. Like the scribal milieu that long dominated the first centurys output of print, the evolution of cyberspace is bound to give up its secrets and realize its potential only slowly to people so long ensconced in older media. Are new media leading to a shift in the ratio of the senses today?Quite possibly, but that shift may be of the same slow, unconscious sort that marked the changes that attended modernization in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries."[Rath, Richard Cullen *How Early America Sounded*. 2019.]

09. "Second, it offered a background illustration for the spectacles enacted daily in the arena directly in front. Third, it served as an unusual – though functional – exposition building, providing space to display some of the items most commonly associated with ancient Egypt. Finally, since its visitors could use an electric elevator in order to reach the top, the pyramid offered an unusually spectacular, panoramic view over site and city alike, thus offering a literal overview of both."[(auth.), Alexander C. T. Geppert *Fleeting Cities: Imperial Expositions in Fin-de-Siècle Europe*. Palgrave Macmillan UK, 2010.]

10. "I argue that interiority, as a concept of spatial organization, was created in a new way in Kano through the Islamic institution of female seclusion. 25 Hence, I discuss below how interiority expressed itself in the palace through language, architecture, and sociospatial practice."[Nast, Heidi J. *Concubines and Power: Five Hundred Years in a Northern Nigerian Palace*. Univ Of Minnesota Press, 2004.]

11. "Expositions can be seen as closely knit textures spread over time that reveal multiple perspectives for interpretation. They were intended to represent contingent versions of the global in local contexts and constituted, in the words of Georg Simmel, ‘momentary centers of world civilization’. 103 Eco had to concede that expositions must be seen as complex technologies and media of communication: ‘The exposition […] does not display goods, or if it does, it uses the goods as a means, as a pretext to present something else’, he stated: ‘And this something else is the exposition itself."[(auth.), Alexander C. T. Geppert *Fleeting Cities: Imperial Expositions in Fin-de-Siècle Europe*. Palgrave Macmillan UK, 2010.]

12. "In so doing, he is following Eisenstein again. These mechanics in the formation of an image interest us because the mechanics of its formation in life turn out to be the prototype of the method of creating images in art. (1975, p. 14) And in science too, Luria would have added approvingly. References Eisenstein, S. The film sense (J. Leyda, Trans. ). New York: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1975. Percy, W. The message in the bottle. New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 1975. D Acknowledgments It is a pleasure to be able to use this opportunity to thank so many for their help in making this book a reality."[(auth.), Ashley Montagu, and Bruce Bain (eds.) *The Sociogenesis of Language and Human Conduct*. Springer US, 1983.]

13. "Interesting as it is in its own right, it deserves a separate treatment. The focus here will be to construct a base upon which such a transformation could take place. One account of why such a shift took place does need to be considered, though. Marshall McLuhan, the media guru par excellence of the 1960s -- whose theories have undergone somewhat of a renaissance as the digiterati have found new relevance in them -- asserted that print and literacy gave humans “an eye for an ear,” shifting the proportions of the sensorium."[Rath, Richard Cullen *How Early America Sounded*. 2019.]

14. "Once the cases were properly demonstrated in terms of the perfect matching of causes and eﬀects, the investigator could claim to have achieved ‘proof ’. Each proof illuminates how nature operates as a whole. With a mastery of causes, the investigator was potentially in the position to reconstruct existing or new eﬀects from the bottom up. Leonardo’s own works of art constitute exactly this kind of building— remaking new visual eﬀects from basic causes, not least those of an optical nature."[Kemp, Martin *Leonardo: Revised Edition*. Revised. Oxford University Press, 2011.]

15. "Thus we ﬁnd wonderfully succinct drawings for ring bearings, axles, hinges, gears, ratchets, cams, couplings, springs, and so on. Any kind of new body could potentially be assembled to undertake any designated function. At their best, his designs have that air of compact inevitability that makes one wonder why no one else had thought of it. A patron who received a pair of tongs made by a German technician at Leonardo’s behest was, in eﬀect, being presented with an implicit lesson in theoretical mechanics and the proper practice of engineering design."[Kemp, Martin *Leonardo: Revised Edition*. Revised. Oxford University Press, 2011.]