Created: 2025-12-13 14:53:00
Origin: searched
Selected: So, contrary to this, I suggest an interact architecture agenda that is open for technological explorations while at the same time making use of classical concepts from architecture in new innovative texturation processes of information technologies in physical spaces. fRoM ARchiTecTuRes To enviRonMenTs Not only do we need to relate these new textures available to the concept of buildings, and not only can we rely on architectural thinking when introducing digital elements and technologies in physical spaces.[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

--- Context List ---
01. "So, contrary to this, I suggest an interact architecture agenda that is open for technological explorations while at the same time making use of classical concepts from architecture in new innovative texturation processes of information technologies in physical spaces. fRoM ARchiTecTuRes To enviRonMenTs Not only do we need to relate these new textures available to the concept of buildings, and not only can we rely on architectural thinking when introducing digital elements and technologies in physical spaces."[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

02. "The notion of “Interactive architecture” (e. g. Bullivant, 2005; Fox & Kemp, 2009) bridges in itself two design traditions, i. e. design of interactive systems (e. g. Benyon, 2004) on the one hand, and traditional architecture (e. g. Ching, 2007) as the tradition of designing our built environment on the other hand. As such, this emerging area, in which digital technologies are used as one design material (Vallgårda & Redström, 2007) amongst other materials in the creation of new built environments, challenges the traditional approach to systems design, as well as the methods applied to arrive at well-grounded digital solutions."[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

03. "This more fundamental treatment has proven rather powerful for generating new design insights at a variety of scales, including the architectural. Shutters (Coelho & Maes, 2009) a computational re-design of a common building element, louvers, is not merely another example of embedding digital functionalities within a traditional object. On the contrary, Shutters manifests and materializes the interaction design concept of “soft mechanics”, a move away from hard structural joints and towards soft forms."[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

04. "No system has really succeeded in achieving universal application, although the fundamental principles of modular construction and systems co-ordination have 70 4. 41 become integrated into general design practice. Perhaps this is because architects tend to prefer designing new systems rather than designing with systems. At the outset of the new town of Milton Keynes, in Bedfordshire, much careful thinking was put into the design for a standard Advanced Factory Unit versatile enough to house almost any small industrial process."[(Auth.), Chris Wilkinson *Supersheds. The Architecture of Long-Span, Large-Volume Buildings*. Butterworth Architecture, 1991.]

05. "With it has come the opportunity for longer spans and the enclosure of larger column-free spaces with more efficient lighter weight structures. This process will continue with the development of new materials and structural types. Surely we as architects and members of the design team cannot afford to ignore it. It is our task to process the new technology: we must make architecture out of it. 110 6 The Future 'Modem architecture offers architects an extraordinary opportunity to evolve new forms and materials."[(Auth.), Chris Wilkinson *Supersheds. The Architecture of Long-Span, Large-Volume Buildings*. Butterworth Architecture, 1991.]

06. "Contemporary landscape The use of computer simulations in design has radically evolved. The increased  ability to sense and gather data have made “equation-heavy”models such as  the DYNAMO obsolete and promised to extend or even exceed human thought.  In philosophy this movement has broadly been termed as posthumanism,  framing a large body of work questioning the foundations and centrality of  human thoughts and cognitive abilities. The increasing capacity to gather  accurate data about the environment and simulate them through more complex  algorithms finds here a fertile ground to align philosophical and design agendas  to speculate what role random procedures might have in design.  "[INPUT: Bottazzi - 2020 - Digital architecture beyond computers fragments of a cultural history of computational design.pdf]

07. "When new technology appears we often rush to acquire it. Future Systems believes that borrowing technology developed from structures designed to travel across land (automotive), or through water (marine), air (aviation) or vacuum (space) can help to give energy to the spirit of architecture by introducing a new generation of buildings which are efficient, elegant, versatile and exciting. This approach to shaping the future of architecture is based on the celebration of technology, not the concealment of it."[(Auth.), Chris Wilkinson *Supersheds. The Architecture of Long-Span, Large-Volume Buildings*. Butterworth Architecture, 1991.]

08. "In summary, however, what the MIME work reinforces is that there is a potential role in practice for such mediating frameworks as the Loeales Framework or the Grounded Innovation Map that can sit in-between understanding and design. 216 LOCALES FRAMEWORK Embodied Interaction Paul Dourish (2001 b) has recently outlined a new foundational approach to the design of interactive systems called 'embodied interaction '. He develops the embodied interaction perspective by first observing that social computing (of which CSCW is an example) and tangible computing share a common basis: that we experience the world by engaging direct1y with it and so both consequently draw on the same set of human skills and abilities."[(auth.), Geraldine Fitzpatrick *The Locales Framework: Understanding and Designing for Wicked Problems*. Springer Netherlands, 2003.]

09. "Critics of Patrik Schumacher’s Parametricism still identify similar  inconsistencies, as this new movement is presented both as a new aesthetic  language—Parametricism as a style, a Morettian expression of new societal  problems—and a new method for design and research. The tension here lies in  the fact that parametric modeling is not inherently biased toward any particular  group of forms: both a curvaceous and a rectilinear design can be generated  parametrically and yet most of the parametric production concentrates on  organic forms (Frazer 2016, pp."[INPUT: Bottazzi - 2020 - Digital architecture beyond computers fragments of a cultural history of computational design.pdf]

10. " Chu’s involvement with CA deserves greater attention as he was one of the  first architects to develop genuine computational architecture; that is, designs  that no longer derived their formal inspiration from other formal systems—for  example, biology, human body, plants, etc. —but rather were directly shaped by  code and binary logic as generators of potential new worlds. CA not only provided  a computational logic complex enough to warrant novel formal results, but also  exhibited potential to simulate random processes of growth or evolution."[INPUT: Bottazzi - 2020 - Digital architecture beyond computers fragments of a cultural history of computational design.pdf]

11. "It also takes place at a community level when I reftect on these personal experiences against those of the broader community to generalise or abstract learnings, and to evolve a new abstraction that can facilitate better communication between understanding and designing. In line with the iterative nature of wicked problems, the dialogue builds from the background of work presented in this chapter. Various tenets from this work formed foundational positions, namely: • That cooperative work is complex, dynamic, situated, and contingent, and is intricately and inextricably woven into the workaday world for the individuals involved • That computer-based support needs to fit into this workaday world • That systems designers need/use/like frameworks or abstractions as a basis for system design; that action-based models ofwork are an insufficient basis from which to provide support • That the theoretical approaches currently being used were not developed to provide practical insights to design The CSCW Design Challenge 43 Concepts from Strauss' (1993) theory of action, as previously discussed, were particularly inftuential."[(auth.), Geraldine Fitzpatrick *The Locales Framework: Understanding and Designing for Wicked Problems*. Springer Netherlands, 2003.]

12. "(1987). A New Theory oJ Urban Design. Oxford University Press, New York. Anderson, B. , Button, G. , and Sharrock, W. (1993). Supporting the design process within an organisational context. In Proceedings oJ the Third European ConJerence on ComputerSupported Cooperative Work, pages 47-59, Milan, Italy. Anderson, R. I. (1994). Representations and requiremetns: The value of ethnography in system design. Human-Computer Interaction, 9(2):151-182. Baecker, R. M. (1993). Media spaces."[(auth.), Geraldine Fitzpatrick *The Locales Framework: Understanding and Designing for Wicked Problems*. Springer Netherlands, 2003.]

13. "This is strongly reminiscent of evolutionary psychologists’ Swiss Army Knife model of the human mind; we may even conjecture that the army knife itself is a product of the army knife-like massively modular architecture of the human cognition. I would like to suggest that subassembling is a key factor that gives rise to this uniquely human mental make-up. Each tool part, made separately for serving a different purpose, represents a subassembly to be integrated with others into a single whole unit. Sub-Merge is a linguistic counterpart of this mental computational process involved in uniquely human tool making."[Roeper, Tom, and Margaret Speas (eds.) *Recursion: Complexity in Cognition*. Springer International Publishing, 2014.]

14. "Good architecture is always a provocation. In that sense, the Case Study House program, sponsored by Arts <£ Architecture magazine under John Entenza, was exemplary. 11The journal commissioned a number of architects to design houses as prototypes for a new way of living—the postwar way of living. The twenty-six houses resulting from this program were not only published in Arts <£ Architecture but, for the most part, built."[Colomina, Beatriz *Domesticity at War*. The MIT Press, 2007.]

15. "Marcus, G. F. (2006). Cognitive architecture and descent with modification. Cognition, 101(2), 443–465. Matsuzawa, T. (2001). Primate foundations of human intelligence: A view of tool use in nonhuman primates and fossil hominids. In T. Matsuzawa (Ed. ), Primate origins of human cognition and behavior (pp. 3–25). Tokyo: Springer. Moore, M. W. (2010). “Grammar of action” and stone flaking design space. In A. Nowell & I. Davidson (Eds. ), Stone tools and the evolution of human cognition (pp."[Roeper, Tom, and Margaret Speas (eds.) *Recursion: Complexity in Cognition*. Springer International Publishing, 2014.]