Created: 2025-12-28 19:29:26
Origin: suggested
Selected: In particular, it allows skin to be understood as a form of clothing, and clothing as a form of skin. In other words, skin can be understood as a canvas to be dressed up (as in ornamentation practices such 78 The Metaphor of Nudity as tattooing), and clothing can be understood as a second skin. Skin is thus a crucial border site in the shifting relation between nudity and clothing – a bodily site with great cultural, psychological and phenomenological import. Its cultural functions include acting as a marker of racial identity, regulating the opposition between the “inside” and “outside” of the body and, metaphorically, acting like a kind of shell or clothing, holding the body in place.[Barcan, Ruth *Nudity: A Cultural Anatomy*. Berg Publishers, 2004.]

--- Context List ---
01. "In particular, it allows skin to be understood as a form of clothing, and clothing as a form of skin. In other words, skin can be understood as a canvas to be dressed up (as in ornamentation practices such 78 The Metaphor of Nudity as tattooing), and clothing can be understood as a second skin. Skin is thus a crucial border site in the shifting relation between nudity and clothing – a bodily site with great cultural, psychological and phenomenological import. Its cultural functions include acting as a marker of racial identity, regulating the opposition between the “inside” and “outside” of the body and, metaphorically, acting like a kind of shell or clothing, holding the body in place."[Barcan, Ruth *Nudity: A Cultural Anatomy*. Berg Publishers, 2004.]

02. "Therefore, the decision of an individual to augment the natural body through temporary or permanent decoration reveals precise information regarding that person’s social role, whether actual or conceptualized. Body decoration also reflects information on the society the individual inhabits. Specific colors, patterns, ornamental items, and the manner and timing with which these materials are applied to the body are all part of a culturally defined communication code (Brain 1979; Ebin 1979). In this regard, body decoration reflects overall social, religious, and political systems, as well as an individual’s place within these systems."[Deter-Wolf, Aaron *Drawing with great needles : ancient tattoo traditions of North America*. Austin, North America.: University of Texas Press, 2013.]

03. "Though the sisters no longer wear habits in the full sense they still wear white veils on their heads denoting their status. In the civilized world the enclosed body provides an eﬀective conclusion 241 surface for signs. As Hendrickson points out, the body is remarkably persuasive as a ground for symbolic activity, since it provides a situation which is both personal and public. 3 The body becomes “the symbolic stage on which the drama of socialization is enacted” (Turner 1980: 12). In M’lomp the focus on surface is made evident when people are choosing new clothes, for instance at Christmas or Easter."[Andrewes, Janet *Bodywork: Dress As Cultural Tool (African Social Studies Series)*. 2004.]

04. "For example, Platonic and Christian metaphysics imagined the body as the clothing of the soul (Perniola 1989: 239). Imagining the self as comprised of sets of mutually enclosing “layers” necessarily draws attention to borders and hence to skin."[Barcan, Ruth *Nudity: A Cultural Anatomy*. Berg Publishers, 2004.]

05. "Therefore, it seems justified to analyze the decoration of these figurines as a proxy for human body treatment. The transferability of ornamental motifs and compositions between material culture and tattoo designs is known from ethnographic documents and is considered a potential correlate for temporary and permanent prehistoric body art (Streit 1935:681). Nevertheless, this transferability of patterns and designs also makes it difficult to determine whether ornamentation depicted on figurines represents textile patterns or body art forms, since costume design may also be decorated with linear ornamentation (e. g. , Lüning 2005)."[Krutak, Lars, and Aaron Deter-Wolf *Ancient Ink: The Archaeology of Tattooing*. Hardcover. University of Washington Press, 2017.]

06. "Given the crucial yet ambivalent status of “walls” in Loosian theory—either as afterthought or the very instantiation of cladding—this interior made of layered walls and glass cannot be understood as just another theater of display and voyeurism but also as a drama about their restless inversions. It suggests the pliability of body boundaries. Loosian cladding, as an extension of skin, opens and extends the body’s boundary into the exterior world, rendering that body at once imperial and porous. For Loos, the disavowed primal scene of architecture is the revelation of the transferable and inchoative nature of structure itself."[Cheng, Anne Anlin *Second Skin: Josephine Baker & the Modern Surface*. Oxford University Press, 2011.]

07. "Most crucially, for all its symbolism and associated imagery, the skin, made up of layers and stretched over the entire body, is our body’s largest organ. It exists in contrast with the more visceral images of pulsing wet muscles and the red masses of heart, liver, and kidney that usually spring to mind when we contemplate our organs. These are hidden and slightly repulsive, glistening dangerously, revealed only when the body itself is laid open. The skin, as an ideal, is smooth and pliant, inviting connection, promising containment, and defining beauty."[Cuskelly, Maryrose *Original Skin: Exploring the Marvels of the Human Hide*. Counterpoint, 2011.]

08. "Rather, the body and its parts have themselves adopted the characteristics of a medium, wherein lies the “return to the holistic body concept. ” The discourse of “getting under the skin” was necessary to “free” the body strata of a given hierarchy. The skin and the other organs, thus freed, have taken on the role of pure mediation, of flat and “slippery” screens, of the sur-face on which the body as such is produced."[Flanagan, Mary, and Austin Booth *Re:skin*. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press, 2006.]

09. "Thirdly, the body is a lively symbol of the values and ideas which permeate the Animist view of the world. In its simplicity, it represents the absence of social diﬀerentiation that characterizes Samatite life, while its wiry vigour expresses the cultural emphasis that is placed on hard work and agricultural production. I began my ﬁeldwork with the idea that in the encounter between dress and the body it would self-evidently be dress that gains the upper hand. That is to say, I assumed that dress self-evidently moulds and shapes the body and has a determining inﬂuence on the body’s stance and demeanour."[Andrewes, Janet *Bodywork: Dress As Cultural Tool (African Social Studies Series)*. 2004.]

10. "In these images, the spill and shimmer of light across the surface minimalize the three-dimensional materiality of the body. Indeed, light becomes a kind of prosthetic skin for Baker, rendering the idea of skin itself as costume, prop, and surrogate. The masculinist/impassive/technological modern surfaces (bronze, metal, shellac, ﬁlm) ﬂow casually into the feminized/animalized/ﬂuid surfaces (skin, cloth, hair) in these images. What is so sexy about these images is not so much Baker’s naked body as its surfaceness and that quality’s ability to express and facilitate ﬂuidity."[Cheng, Anne Anlin *Second Skin: Josephine Baker & the Modern Surface*. Oxford University Press, 2011.]

11. "FOR MORE INFORMATION Gröning, Karl. Body Decoration: A World Survey of Body Art. New York: Vendome Press, 1998. Lal, Brij V. , and Kate Fortune, eds. The Pacific Islands: An Encyclopedia. Honolulu, HI: University of Hawaii Press, 2000. ■ ■ ■ Body Painting The peoples of Oceania used paint to adorn their bodies for ceremonies and festive occasions. Body paint was more than a way to beautify the body; the designs and colors signified a person’s sex, age, social status, and wealth, among other things. Designs had religious, social, and diplomatic meanings."[Pendergast, Sara, Tom Pendergast, and Sarah Hermsen *Fashion, costume, and culture: clothing, headwear, body decorations, and footwear through the ages*. Detroit: UXL, 2003.]

12. "It seems to suggest yet another body over and above the one more hidden than shown below, one whose main effect, being dependent upon the lower body’s every movement, lies in revealing a lozenge-shaped oval of that body in its naked state. Here, again, skin is seen at the price of ﬁgure. The nakedness revealing itself follows chance movements and cannot be pre-arranged. By contrast, one can think of Versace, where every baring of skin is carefully framed and sexiness is set into action in a manner as dramatical as it is predictable."[Vinken, Barbara *Fashion Zeitgeist: Trends and Cycles in the Fashion System*. 2005.]

13. "symbolization of membership. or whatever-all types of body modification have a decorative function. The transformation makes the body aesthetically pleasing to the individual and the relevant reference group. Body Sculpting • Reshaping the body so as to meet criteria of beauty is a common practice in many cultures. For centuries Chinese women's feet were bound to create the "lotus foot. "The ideal three-inch foot (just the right size to fit into a man's palm) was not only a form of symbolic and actual social incapacitation, it was also considered to have erotic significance."[Sanders, Clinton, and D Angus Vail *Customizing the Body: The Art and Culture of Tattooing*. Revised. Temple University Press, 2008.]

14. "xii ACKNOWLEDGMENTS ANCIENT INK Introduction Aaron Deter-Wolf and Lars Krutak T he desire to alter, decorate, and adorn the human body is a cultural universal. While specific forms of body decoration and the underlying motivations vary according to region, culture, and era, human societies from the past and present have engaged in practices designed to enhance their natural appearance. Tattooing—the process of inserting pigment into the skin to create permanent designs and patterns—as a form of body decoration has been practiced by cultures around the globe and throughout human history."[Krutak, Lars, and Aaron Deter-Wolf *Ancient Ink: The Archaeology of Tattooing*. Hardcover. University of Washington Press, 2017.]

15. "What we see in much of the architecture and art referred to in this volume is that the distinction between artwork, body, or building and surface, skin, or façade begins to be persistently broken down and reconfigured. What emerges in the works collected in re:skin is a complex understanding of the ways in which difference, especially gender difference and bodily difference, is marked and constituted. Many of the writers here ask, What constitutes a body?and invoke ideas of switchable body parts or notions of the body as a discontinuous series of networks: open, rather than closed, systems."[Flanagan, Mary, and Austin Booth *Re:skin*. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press, 2006.]

16. "Body adornment refers to the practice of physically enhancing the body by styling and decorating the hair, painting and embellishing the fingernails, wearing makeup, painting the body, wearing jewelry, and the use of clothing. Body adornments are by definition temporary. Body modification, on the other hand, refers to the physical alteration of the body through the use of surgery, tattooing, piercing, scarification, branding, genital mutilation, implants, and other practices. Body modifications can be permanent or temporary, although most are permanent and alter the body forever."[DeMello, Margo *Encyclopedia of Body Adornment*. Greenwood, 2007.]

17. "Now, however, this body becomes insistently visible, disguised as a pure body, mindless and lifeless, as a dummy. On this background, it is the jacket which, in an initial moment, ﬁrst brings the body into play. Attention is heightened by the disruption of the horizon of expectations. The body – the torso and arms – are in clothed in diametrically opposite ways: the one tight, the other wide; fullness of material is contrasted with utmost minimality, old-fashioned quality and perfection in the ﬁnish with the unﬁnished, merely sketched out pattern."[Vinken, Barbara *Fashion Zeitgeist: Trends and Cycles in the Fashion System*. 2005.]

18. "Evoking the Chinese acupuncturists' yin/yang cosmology, the body is in a  perpetual state of dynamic equilibrium, oscillating between the poles of  masculine and feminine, man and animal, sickness and health. Thus,  relieving excess pressure at these points enables the body to regain its  former state of homeostasis (harmony) within and outside of the body. As one can imagine, it is  believed that there are many possible interrelationships and connections between organs, points,  joints, and tattoos.  "[INPUT: Tattoo history - a source book - an anthology of historical -- edited and introduced by Steve Gilbert with the -- New York, Berkeley, CA, New York -- 9781890451066 -- 4e5326b8cc15038fb0b97dd1128d1dfc -- Anna’s Archive.pdf]

19. "Succinctly put, the modification of the body is the simplest means by which human beings are turned into social beings—they move from “raw” to “cooked” as the body goes from naked to marked. According to theorist Michel Thevoz, “there is no body but the painted body,” because the body must always be stamped with the mark of culture and society; without marking, the body cannot move within the channels of social exchange. But in reality, human bodies are never “blank” or unmarked, even when not explicitly marked through adornment or modification."[DeMello, Margo *Encyclopedia of Body Adornment*. Greenwood, 2007.]

20. "In the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries ethnological studies were conducted with the few remaining members of the nations of the Southeast in an attempt to recover information on Indian culture and customs, including body decoration. The forms of indigenous body decoration identified in these various accounts included face and body painting, greasing, scratching, and tattooing. Of these, only tattooing permanently altered the body and so was used 2 // antoinette b. wallace to convey enduring information such as affirming an individual’s place in the social order or denoting a permanent change in status."[Deter-Wolf, Aaron *Drawing with great needles : ancient tattoo traditions of North America*. Austin, North America.: University of Texas Press, 2013.]

21. "Among the many different cultures living on the islands, body decoration is very important to social and religious practices. Body painting is a temporary method of adorning the body. Much as westerners wear dress clothes to weddings, the peoples of Oceania paint their bodies for rituals and festive occasions. Other body markings are permanent, however. Scarification and tattooing have been practiced among many of the peoples of Oceania for generations."[Pendergast, Sara, Tom Pendergast, and Sarah Hermsen *Fashion, costume, and culture: clothing, headwear, body decorations, and footwear through the ages*. Detroit: UXL, 2003.]

22. "Each print offers a different understanding or take on the body. Some are grounded in the physical and social aspects of humanity, while others present the body as a site for fantastic imagination and performance. Still others reference the printed page as a “body. ” Whether fish, fowl, or human, the body as seen in these prints continues to intrigue us across the centuries and show that even though times change, people and their concerns do not."[Stewart, Alison G. *Strange Bodies: Hybrid, Text, and the Human Form. Prints from the Sheldon Museum of Art*. Lincoln, Nebraska: Zea Books, 2016.]

23. "Among dark-skinned tribes in Africa, scarification was popular (effective tattooing was not possible on very dark skin). This involved scratching or cutting the skin in patterns, sometimes rubbing a plant extract or ash into the wounds, to make scar tissue form in raised designs that lasted a lifetime. The designs used for body painting, tattoos, and scarification were often symbolic or magical. Piercing Piercing involves making a hole in part of the body through which some kind of decoration can be worn."[Rooney, Anne *The Eighteenth Century*. Facts on File, 2005.]

24. "Eicher and Evenson have made a classification system for dress, dividing it into various modifications to body parts, and supplements to the body which can be hung, wrapped, suspended, or pre-shaped, and also attachments to the body itself or to the enclosures, including hand-held objects. This system provides an objective tool for examining dress, so that unbiased assessment can be possible. Once meanings are added, culturally specific ideas come into play, and it becomes impossible to make impartial evaluations about body modifications."[Cliffe, Sheila *The Social Life of Kimono: Japanese Fashion Past and Present*. Bloomsbury Academic, 2017.]

25. "These clothes are not there to display the body; the body is there to display the structure, the harmonies and the sometimes harshly discordant unorthodoxies of the clothes. ‘For me,’ said Yamamoto, ‘the body is nothing. The body is change. Every moment it gets older so you cannot count on it. You cannot control time. I can’t believe in the human body. I do not think the human body is beautiful. ’ Miyake, who had been showing successfully in Paris for a decade when Yamamoto and Kawakubo first showed there, Yamamoto is preoccupied with the texture of fabrics and the potential of large, abstract, asymmetric shapes to display it."[Polan, Brenda, and Roger Tredre *The Great Fashion Designers*. Bloomsbury Academic, 2009.]