Created: 2025-12-29 00:08:43
Origin: searched
Selected: It highlights the potential sexiness of the dress, which through being merely suggested and then immediately withdrawn, comes across as all the more enticing and addictive. Helmut Lang’s fashion work shows skin at the expense of ﬁgure. It plays upon the theme of fabric as second skin. The received view of the sexiness of clothes rests upon an intentional exposure of skin as a clearly deﬁned part of a clearly silhouetted ﬁgure. Clothes make people sexy by imparting signiﬁcance to what is otherwise sensually meaningless, by transferring bare ﬂesh into a code.[Vinken, Barbara *Fashion Zeitgeist: Trends and Cycles in the Fashion System*. 2005.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Skin metaphors are ubiquitous in contemporary art and architectural theory. Not only are “skins” of artworks and buildings frequently referred to, but the metaphors and mechanics of skin as the body’s surface are applied to artworks—the skin’s self-regulation, its ability to adapt to changing environments, its permeable surface, as well as skin’s organic nature. Artists and architects are drawing upon a long history of examining the relationship of, and distinctions between, façade and building, surface and depth."[Flanagan, Mary, and Austin Booth *Re:skin*. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press, 2006.]

02. "Does human skin (both literal and displaced by the tropes aforementioned) in these images act as decoration or cladding?Is “blackness” ornament or essence?And what would it mean for “ornament” to acquire or require “essence” and vice versa?To ask these questions is already to acknowledge skin’s potential for surrogacy. The onlooker, for instance, might begin to observe how the lighting and the mise-en-scène work to conﬂate the different registers of surface planes. Thus Baker’s black, airbrushed, and seemingly ﬂawless THE WOMAN WITH THE GOLDEN SKIN 111 skin—greased and polished to a shiny, laminated gloss— ﬁnds an echo in her sleek, metallicized hair that, in turn, recovers itself in the lamé cloth pouring out of her body."[Cheng, Anne Anlin *Second Skin: Josephine Baker & the Modern Surface*. Oxford University Press, 2011.]

03. "Skin has also become a recurring trope in architectural theory; architects are designing architectural exteriors and interiors that control climate and respond to the environment as a means of circulating air and light. Like skin, these new walls are selfregulating, “intelligent” boundaries. Certainly the metaphor of skin as the house we live in is omnipresent in both fiction and everyday idiom. In fact, in much of the writing explored in this volume, the metaphor of the body as habitat appears specifically in terms of the skin as house: after all, without the skin, the body is simply one more empty space, without defined boundaries."[Flanagan, Mary, and Austin Booth *Re:skin*. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press, 2006.]

04. "In particular, it allows skin to be understood as a form of clothing, and clothing as a form of skin. In other words, skin can be understood as a canvas to be dressed up (as in ornamentation practices such 78 The Metaphor of Nudity as tattooing), and clothing can be understood as a second skin. Skin is thus a crucial border site in the shifting relation between nudity and clothing – a bodily site with great cultural, psychological and phenomenological import. Its cultural functions include acting as a marker of racial identity, regulating the opposition between the “inside” and “outside” of the body and, metaphorically, acting like a kind of shell or clothing, holding the body in place."[Barcan, Ruth *Nudity: A Cultural Anatomy*. Berg Publishers, 2004.]

05. "So what can the surface be or do if it is not just a cover?This question impacts not only Modernist, formalist experimentations but also how the modern history of racialized skin gets seen, read, and written. For we cannot address the history of modern surfaces without also asking after the other history of skin, the violent, dysphoric one—the one about racialized nakedness inherited from the Enlightenment so necessary to Western constructions of humanity and the one that speaks of the objectiﬁcation, commodiﬁcation, and fetishization of racialized skin, especially black female skin. 14 While the gendered aspects of Modernism’s skin preoccupation have been addressed by scholars (Schor, Wigley), what has been less studied or observed is the element of race in this aesthetic history. 15 In architectural theory, for example, the topic of race rarely arises; yet the skin trope underlying modern architectural conceptions of (white or pure) surface demands a critical engagement with ideas of racial difference."[Cheng, Anne Anlin *Second Skin: Josephine Baker & the Modern Surface*. Oxford University Press, 2011.]

06. "Illustration by Paul Hambruch. Reprinted from Paul Hambruch and Anneliese Eilers, Ponape: Gesellschaft und Geistige Kultur, Wirtschaft und Stoffliche Kultur (Hamburg: Friedrichsen, De Gruyter, 1936), 2:277. 23. The design is formed by the interplay of light and dark, of clear skin and marked skin, of positive and negative. Both elements are necessary to create the pattern, which weaves ink and skin together to form a kind of living tapestry."[Ellis, Juniper *Tattooing the World: Pacific Designs in Print and Skin*. Columbia University Press, 2008.]

07. "They provided the ‘desiring skin’ that would shield and protect. However, the scars remained. As French analyst Didier Anzieu argues, ‘skin shields the equilibrium of our internal functioning from exogenous disruptions’, Gabriel Koureas 183 but in its scars, ‘it preserves the marks of disruptions’. 104 It is exactly these scars that Lewis’s Tyronic mask, like a prosthetic skin, attempted to hide."[Brauer, Fae, and Anthea Callen (eds.) *Art, Sex and Eugenics: Corpus Delecti*. Ashgate, 2008.]

08. "The underlying reference to metamorphosis, alluding to an insect shedding its outer skin, is suggested and his use of transparent textiles heightens the magical effect: The model glows through this golden paper skin, like an insect set in amber . . . One of Miyake’s most innovative images is found in the bark of a tree. The body can move inside a tube of fabric as if in a caterpillar skin. Miyake asked: ‘Did you know there’s a tree in Africa where the bark comes off completely?"[English, Bonnie *Japanese Fashion Designers: The Work and Influence of Issey Miyake, Yohji Yamamoto and Rei Kawakubo*. Bloomsbury Academic, 2011.]

09. "2. Sim ple N atural Products Used in a Com pletely N atural State o r after  Being Treated with a Technical Process That Does N ot Fundam entally  Change the Structural an d Form al Properties o f  the M aterial § 26 Our Own Skin: The Most Natural Cover Without a doubt, the first natural product to be considered here is our own  hide or human skin. The remarkable cultural-historical phenomenon of painting and tattooing the skin is also of great interest for the history of style. We  do not really know whether the painted or etched lines and scrolls with which  people who go partly or entirely naked almost universally decorate their skin  (a custom that has survived for a very long time even among highly civilized "[INPUT: Semper__Style_in_the_Technical_and_Tectonic_Arts_or_Practical_Aesthetics.pdf]

10. "It highlights the potential sexiness of the dress, which through being merely suggested and then immediately withdrawn, comes across as all the more enticing and addictive. Helmut Lang’s fashion work shows skin at the expense of ﬁgure. It plays upon the theme of fabric as second skin. The received view of the sexiness of clothes rests upon an intentional exposure of skin as a clearly deﬁned part of a clearly silhouetted ﬁgure. Clothes make people sexy by imparting signiﬁcance to what is otherwise sensually meaningless, by transferring bare ﬂesh into a code."[Vinken, Barbara *Fashion Zeitgeist: Trends and Cycles in the Fashion System*. 2005.]

11. "Portraits appear, as when the scourge of syphilis invents a type of person — the so-called syphilide (a far cry from its near homophone “sylphide”). Another head turned to profile is a conglomeration of bends, folds, and impossible torsions of skin amounting to a type that could be termed a convolute. Skin is what matters most, but not real skin. Instead, Smith’s Atlas stages a dream about skin. The dreamer is an illustrator or surgeon for whom skin tears like paper, in whose hand, and through whose eye, bodies can be cut from the swath of their environment like paper dolls."[(ed.), Michael Sappol *Hidden Treasure  The National Library of Medicine*. Blast Books, 2012.]

12. "‘Shedding one’s skin’ is both an image of growth and of re-invention, and yet skin, quixotically, is also a symbol of intransigence. The rhetorical question posed in Jeremiah 13:23, ‘Can the Ethiopian change his skin, or the leopard change his spots?’ makes the point that one accustomed to doing evil is unlikely to alter their behaviour and do good. To be comfortable in your own unchangeable skin is to be at ease with the person you have become: your metaphorical 8 Skin skin ‘fits like a glove’, and you wear your imperfections and idiosyncrasies lightly."[Cuskelly, Maryrose *Original Skin: Exploring the Marvels of the Human Hide*. Counterpoint, 2011.]

13. "It Is an Ever-fix’d Mark: scars, moles, and other blemishes 60 Peculiar to Humanity: blushing and tickling 84 Unclean, Unclean: skin and disease 101 She’s Got Perfect Skin 117 The Lure of the Tattoo 132 Alison Whyte’s Boots: skinning and the human pelt 150 Bound in Human Skin: anthropodermic bibliopegy 164 You’re Nicked: the romance of fingerprints 177 Peering into the Abyss: burns injuries 192 Leaves on the Tree of Life: the Donor Tissue Bank of Victoria 222 Second Skins: semi-living sculpture 233 The Skin We’re In 249 Sources 257 Acknowledgements 273 original skin Empresses of the Japanese Bath I feel like I am all skin."[Cuskelly, Maryrose *Original Skin: Exploring the Marvels of the Human Hide*. Counterpoint, 2011.]

14. "The appearance of the skin is a common focus in societies around the world. Clear, clean, healthy skin is considered beautiful in many cultures, but many other cultures use body paint to make people more beautiful, powerful, or to convey important social information about the person. Artificially lightened skin is considered attractive in many cultures, especially where light skin is associated with the upper classes, and dark skin with working people. For that reason, one of the 17:2 GGBD118C0C GR3695/DeMello July 31, 2007 COSM ETICS 83 earliest forms of makeup found in many stratified societies is white face powder."[DeMello, Margo *Encyclopedia of Body Adornment*. Greenwood, 2007.]

15. "Although the structure of human skin is morphologically similar to that of other higher order primates (Lavker et al. 1991), use of these other species for scientific or medical experimentation raises numerous ethical considerations. However, the skins of other common laboratory animals exhibit morphological differences from human skin in terms of thickness, tightness, and structure, making them unsuitable surrogates (Lavker and Sun 1982; Liu et al. 2010). Various anatomical and dermatologic examinations have demonstrated that pig skin exhibits close correspondence to human skin in terms of morphology, cellular composition, and immunoreactivity (Avon and Wood 2005; Meyer et al."[Krutak, Lars, and Aaron Deter-Wolf *Ancient Ink: The Archaeology of Tattooing*. Hardcover. University of Washington Press, 2017.]

16. "For these reasons, it may be difficult to find someone who can safely and legally perform these procedures in many areas. 19:18 GGBD118C0S GR3695/DeMello July 31, 2007 SCARIFICATION See also: Earplugs; Labrets; Piercing; Stretching Further Reading: www. BMEZine. com. S C A R I F I C AT I O N In many African and Australian cultures, smooth skin is seen as naked and unadorned. In these cultures, skin that has texture and design on it is much preferred. Scarification refers to the practice of slicing the skin in order to create scars, which are typically joined together into decorative patterns."[DeMello, Margo *Encyclopedia of Body Adornment*. Greenwood, 2007.]

17. "The result is that during sexual activity, particularly foreplay, the shaft covering is rather easily stroked onto and over the glans in a manner which was never before possible for these circumcised men. 3. Added Skin Surface. It may seem strange to discuss the enhanced sensitivity of the glans and the mobility of the shaft skin before discussing the additional skin itself. But, actually, this is the order in which the benefits are typically experienced. Long before the restoring male has enough expanded skin surface to see his new foreskin begin to stay in place without tape, he is enjoying the enhanced sensitivity of his glans and the increased mobility of his shaft skin."[Bigelow, Jim *The Joy of Uncircumcising!*. 2017.]

18. "In those rare cases where irritation continues if all-wool garments are worn next the skin, a mixture of cotton and wool, as in the ordinary “shop” merinos, or of silk and wool, as in the Anglo-Indian gauze, which is perfectly smooth, may be worn. In summer weather I believe that many cases of so-called nettle-rash, and that most painful skin disease, prickly heat, the name of which admirably describes the sensations it produces, are caused by the sudden checking of the functions of the skin, owing to the thinness of the vests worn."[Johnson, Kim K. P., Susan J. Torntore, and Joanne B. Eicher *Fashion Foundations: Early Writings on Fashion and Dress*. Berg Publishers, 2003.]

19. "51). Indeed, this skin piece was torn and crumpled, preventing it from better revealing the scarcely visible tattoo located on the outer part of the foot. In 2013, the skin fragment was restored in The Hermitage conservation workshop and again investigated through infrared photography. As a result, a figure of a fantastic animal measuring 18 by 8 cm came to light (figs."[Krutak, Lars, and Aaron Deter-Wolf *Ancient Ink: The Archaeology of Tattooing*. Hardcover. University of Washington Press, 2017.]

20. "On mummy II/6, the piece is sewn on unusually well and must be considered a decorative border. Both the front and back tails are edged with a light-coloured fur band, which also edges the side of the parka. The sleeves are edged, first with caribou skin and next with a light fur band. The hood of the outer parka is stuck to the head, somewhat misshapen. The inner parka, made of bird-skin, is edged with caribou skin. The outer trousers are made of caribou skin with sealskin trouser legs sewn on."[Hansen, Jens Peder Hart *The Greenland Mummies*. Mcgill Queens University Press, 1991.]

21. "To make the clothing, three different types of skin are used: ordinary skin (with the fur preserved), water skin (with the fur removed), and white skin (with both fur and epidermis removed). Ordinary skin is used for clothing, as the fur ensures good insulation. Water skin is virtually waterproof, and is used for summer clothing and kamiks. White skin is used primarily for embellishment, for example, as an ornamental edging. The entire outer jacket and CLOTHING • 123 the kamiks may be made of white skin for festive occasions."[Hansen, Jens Peder Hart *The Greenland Mummies*. Mcgill Queens University Press, 1991.]

22. "T h e rectangular design of the pig sty (ivam ai), with its stalls, is of ten drawn with a stick in path dirt. T h e cutting of the pig skin is also drawn. A n outline of the steamed pig skin is scratched into the earth w i t h a sharp stick. T h e n the children cut it up, marking the cuts of the bamboo knife, and saying which piece goes to w h o m . Sometimes a simpler version of this is made b y drawing a series of rectangles, w h e r e each rectangle represents a piece of skin."[Heider, Karl G. *The Dugum Dani: A Papuan Culture in the Highlands of West New Guinea*. Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research, 1970.]

23. "The Jaipur foot, which Raman Srinivasan writes about in this volume, is a low-tech device that costs less than a pair of Indian shoes. 26 The fortunes of amputation are also related to the evolution of skin grafting and the repair of large areas of damaged skin. Modern skin graft and plastic techniques date from the 1820s, with the work of Johann Diffenbach, C. F. von Gräfe, Eduard Zeis, and others early in the nineteenth century. 27 Plastic surgery relied on transplantation of skin and successful suturing of tissue flaps, both critical to amputation and other reparative surgical techniques."[Ott, Katherine, David Serlin, and Stephen Mihm *Artificial Parts, Practical Lives: Modern Histories of Prosthetics*. NYU Press, 2002.]

24. "When talking about American or South African history, Samoans (young people, not just teachers) condemn the racism that has been rife in those countries and say, ‘one should not be fa’ailogalanu’, ‘one should not attribute any meaning to [skin] colour’. The fairness of the skin (Samoans say ‘the whiteness’) relates to the cosmological and cosmogonic value of the sun’s ‘light’, ao—which, for Samoans is not a question of skin ‘colour’. Persons of high status stayed inside their houses in order to avoid the fairness of the skin darkening under the rays of the sun."[Tcherkezoff, Serge *First Contacts in Polynesia the Samoan Case (1722-1848) : Western Misunderstanding About Sexuality and Divinity*. 2011.]

25. "Over the years, ideas concerning the origin of hair have varied widely. One current school proposes that hair evolved from the stem reptile’s scales, a notion suggested by the fact that there are small hairs sitting in the hinge region of the scaly tail-skin of most rodents. A second hypothesis suggests that the shaft arose within a gland and initially served a role directing oily secretions from the gland onto the skin surface. This idea is based on the observation that all follicles have oil glands, that the cuticle layer of the hair shaft is structured to scoop oils to the skin surface, and that the earliest animals needed oil on their skin to prevent water loss."[Stenn, Kurt *Hair : a human history*. Pegasus, 2016.]