Created: 2025-11-04 18:39:29
Origin: searched
Selected: 5 In this light, Laos's critique of architecture's "degeneration" to the level of graphic art assumes particular importance. "All of the new architecture is invented at the drawing table, and only later do the resulting drawings find their graphic realization, like paintings at a wax museum. "6 It is significant that it should have been Schonberg who, in the Festschrift for Loos's sixtieth birthday,7 underscored this spatial, three-dimensional character of his work. In Loos, it is a question not only of indicating the specificity of a language-in this case, the language of architecture-but also of demonstrating the impossibility of reducing any language or linguistic game to writing, the impossibility of explaining and resolving the openness of a linguistic game in the unidimensionality of its written notation.[Architecture and Nihilism: On the Philosophy of Modern Architecture, Massimo Cacciari, Stephen Sartarelli (transl.), Patrizia Lombardo (introduction), 1995]

--- Context List ---
01. "It also  proceeded from a need to question the modes of representation generally used by  architects:  plans,  sections,  axonomctrics,  perspectives. However  precise  and  generative they have been, each implies a logical reduction of architectural thought  to what can be shown, at the exclusion of other concerns. They are caught in a sort  of prison-house of architectural language, where ‘the limits of my language are the  limits of my world’. Any attempt to go beyond such limits, to offer another reading  of architecture demanded the questioning of these conventions."[INPUT: Tschumi__The_Manhattan_Transcripts.pdf]

02. "(However  precise  and  generative  plans, sections, and axonometrics may be, each  implies  a  logical  reduction  of  architectural  thought to what can be shown, to the exclusion of  other concerns. They are caught in a sort of  prison-house of architectural language, where ‘the  limits of my language are the limits of my world’. Any attempt to go beyond such limits, to offer  another reading of architecture, demands the /  questioning of these conventions. )"[INPUT: Tschumi__The_Manhattan_Transcripts.pdf]

03. "This dissertation is divided into three chapters.  First, it presents three talks with a number of contemporary architects who, on the one hand,  affirm and engage with the idea that global conditions influence the tradition of architecture, and  on the other, celebrate the interplays between architecture and computers. By placing their  positions next to various phenomena observable by anyone with a computer online, talks about  the global network of computers emerge, rendering apparent these positions’ capacities and  limits to articulating architecture in terms of the online information.  "[INPUT: ThesisJorge.pdf]

04. "If, in other words, one assumes that buildings evoke divergent meanings for different experiencers and interpreters, how is he or she to evaluate the relative accuracy and validity of competing interpretations?As evidence of a hermeneutic approach that might circumvent these two interpretive concerns, I discuss two significant efforts to generate what might be called a hermeneutics of the language of architecture: first, philosopher Karsten Harries’ language of natural symbols; and, second, architect Thomas Thiis-Evensen’s language of architectural archetypes."[Place, Space and Hermeneutics, Bruce B. Janz (eds.), 2017]

05. "      5  ABSTRACT  This dissertation deals with the abundance of online information in architecture. It looks at this  novel phenomenon with prominent contemporary architects, bringing forward the phenomenon’s  implications in relation to their and others’ positions in architecture. Assuming that these  implications present the necessity of articulating architecture addressing the abundance of online  information, it looks at three prominent online applications, seeking a rather abstract— operational, philosophical, and mathematical—understanding of what they do and how they do  it. It further discusses the relevance of articulating architecture in terms similar to those of the  online information, and shows the feasibility of putting together applications to ‘talk’ to the web  communities that circulate information ad infinitum.  "[INPUT: ThesisJorge.pdf]

06. "(Ibid. )  Lynn argues that the question of complexity in architecture is relevant today due the advent of  computer-aided design tools, finding the answer in smoothness.  In response to architecture’s discovery of complex, disparate, differentiated and  heterogeneous cultural and formal contexts, two options have been dominant; either  conflict and contradiction or unity and reconstruction. Presently, an alternative  smoothness is being formulated that may escape these dialectically opposed strategies.  "[INPUT: ThesisJorge.pdf]

07. "We are not aware of Alexander presenting the semi-lattice diagram that he promised. What he  1. 4. 7 Linguistic Talks  Christopher Alexander is not the only contemporary who makes analogies between architecture  and language. A number of architects present clear views on architecture that seem to be  influenced by the philosophical approaches to language of the early 20c. They celebrate the  analogies between language and architecture (Jencks 1981); identify languages, vocabularies,  and grammars in traditional architectural objects; and present methods to create language-like  structures to design and build. For a number of architects, talking about architecture as a  language allows for different degrees of both expression and verification.  "[INPUT: ThesisJorge.pdf]

08. "The Transcripts are about a set of disjunctions among use, form, and social  values. The non-coincidence between meaning and being, movement and space,  man and object is the starting condition of the work. Yet the inevitable  confrontation of these terms produces effects of far-ranging consequence. Ultimately, the Transcripts try to offer a different reading of architecture in which  space, movement and events are independent, yet stand in a new relation to one  another, so that the conventional components of architecture are broken down and  rebuilt along different axes. "[INPUT: Tschumi__The_Manhattan_Transcripts.pdf]

09. "5 In this light, Laos's critique of architecture's "degeneration" to the level of graphic art assumes particular importance. "All of the new architecture is invented at the drawing table, and only later do the resulting drawings find their graphic realization, like paintings at a wax museum. "6 It is significant that it should have been Schonberg who, in the Festschrift for Loos's sixtieth birthday,7 underscored this spatial, three-dimensional character of his work. In Loos, it is a question not only of indicating the specificity of a language-in this case, the language of architecture-but also of demonstrating the impossibility of reducing any language or linguistic game to writing, the impossibility of explaining and resolving the openness of a linguistic game in the unidimensionality of its written notation."[Architecture and Nihilism: On the Philosophy of Modern Architecture, Massimo Cacciari, Stephen Sartarelli (transl.), Patrizia Lombardo (introduction), 1995]

10. "Conversely, architecture as a discipline focuses on the permanence of the architectural object and the myth of its perfectability. DeLanda’s synthetic understanding of cities is inherently destabilizing to architecture because it elevates material factors to the same level as cultural production. The current fascination with fluidity may serve as a catalyst toward a new understanding of architectural processes. However, the preoccupation with representations of fluidity as built form restricts us to rigidly conventional architectural discourse."[VJAA: Vincent James Associates Architects, Vincent James, Jennifer Yoos, 2006]