Created: 2025-12-05 14:43:06
Origin: suggested
Selected: Many ﬁgures, including Mies van der Rohe or Rem Koolhaas, have consistently advocated that “architecture should be consistent with its contemporary language”. This implies that, in the “age of information”, architecture should reject the abstract forms and embrace the electronic iconography. For that reason, Venturi proclaims a kind of “renaissance” of the architecture and the death of the “sculpture” as architecture. Our research aims to include an additional parameter, arguing that the real challenge is to break the dichotomy between physical architecture and graphic architecture.[Marcos, Carlos L. *Graphic Imprints*. Springer International Publishing, 2019.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Many ﬁgures, including Mies van der Rohe or Rem Koolhaas, have consistently advocated that “architecture should be consistent with its contemporary language”. This implies that, in the “age of information”, architecture should reject the abstract forms and embrace the electronic iconography. For that reason, Venturi proclaims a kind of “renaissance” of the architecture and the death of the “sculpture” as architecture. Our research aims to include an additional parameter, arguing that the real challenge is to break the dichotomy between physical architecture and graphic architecture."[Marcos, Carlos L. *Graphic Imprints*. Springer International Publishing, 2019.]

02. "Think on the continued use of diagrams from Durand to Eisenman or the emergence of 2D computer drawing and the digital stratiﬁcation of information into layers and projects in strata such as Tschumi’s La Villette Park. Consider also the signiﬁcant change introduced by virtual modeling and the truly three-dimensional conception of architecture with blobs and folds—not a mere extruded space. Reflect on the development of scripting languages and parametric design, or on the topological notions applied to the concept of open form, algorithmic architecture and the natural counterpoint of digital manufacturing to enhance the materialization of this new digitally borne architecture: a brave new architecture addressing a new notion of materiality."[Marcos, Carlos L. *Graphic Imprints*. Springer International Publishing, 2019.]

03. "Contemporary computer software deals with bi-dimensional representation, three-dimensional dynamic spatial representation, augmented virtual reality and time-based formal topology animations in discrete conventional terms. If spatial organization plays an essential role at a cognitive level, presenting limits to how disciplines measure different space-time paradigms, today, architects should be able to contribute novel algorithms, techniques and concepts of modes of representation to investigations in other ﬁelds conducting research on multidimensional space."[Marcos, Carlos L. *Graphic Imprints*. Springer International Publishing, 2019.]

04. "She argues that the paradigm shift from mechanical to digital architecture fundamentally changes relations between depth and surface, the inside and the outside. Evoking Deleuze's notion of the fold and Elizabeth Grosz's work on architecture, Wegenstein argues that the outside is no longer a reftection of the inside but a virtual condition ofit. Another prominent feature ofboth digital architecture and digital art is the incorporation ofinteractivity, unpredictability, and audience participation, all of which create new intersections between corporeal, digital, and the collective unconscious."[Oosterling, Henk, and Ewa Plonowska Ziarek (eds.) *Intermedialities: Philosophy, Arts, Politics*. Lexington Books, 2010.]

05. "Contents Introduction Breaking Boundaries: Towards a Global Theory of Architectural Representation Eric Roose Chapter 1 The Architectural Representation of Reality: The Built Environment as the Materialization of a Mental Construct Aart Mekking Chapter 2 The Architectural Representation of Islam: Saintly Brilliance in the New Design for the Amsterdam Taibah Mosque Eric Roose Chapter 3 The Architectural Representation of Paradise: Sufi Cosmology and the Four-ı̄wān Plan Elena Paskaleva Chapter 4 The Architectural Representation of Taboo: Toilet Taboos as Guardians of Old Taiwanese Representations of Family Life En-Yu Huang Chapter 5 The Architectural Representation of Diversity: Changing Scopes to Meet Changing Realities in The Hague’s Transvaal Neighbourhood Aart Mekking 7 23 51 95 141 173 List of Contributors 207 Classified Index 209 5 Introduction Breaking Boundaries: Towards a Global Theory of Architectural Representation Eric Roose In a world that is growing smaller by the day, we are left with architectural tools that no longer suffice for the description, the interpretation, and certainly not the creation of a built environment that holds the increasingly diverse communities within today’s complex social situations."[Mekking, Aart J.J., and Eric Roose *The Global Built Environment as a Representation of Realities: Why and How Architecture Should Be the Subject of Worldwide Comparison*. 2009.]

06. "p. cm. — (Writing architecture) Includes bibliographical references and index. ISBN 0-262-57149-8 (pbk. : alk. paper) 1. Architecture—Philosophy. 2. Space (Architecture)—Philosophy. I. Title. II. Series. NA2500 . G76 2001 720´. 1—dc21 2001018300 Acknowledgments vii Foreword by Peter Eisenman xi Introduction xv Part One Embodied Spaces one Embodying Space: An Interview two Lived Spatiality (The Spaces of Corporeal Desire) 31 Futures, Cities, Architecture 49 four Architecture from the Outside 57 ﬁve Cyberspace, Virtuality, and the Real: Some three 3 Part Two Transitional Spaces Architectural Reflections six 75 In-Between: The Natural in Architecture and Culture 91 Part Three Future Spaces seven The Future of Space: Toward an Architecture of Invention 109 eight Embodied Utopias: The Time of Architecture 131 nine Architectures of Excess 151 The Thing 167 ten Notes 185 Bibliography 207 Index 215 I am an outsider to the ﬁeld of architecture."[Grosz, Elizabeth *Architecture from the Outside: Essays on Virtual and Real Space (Writing Architecture)*. 2001.]

07. "IO) the  close alignment (but not quite identity) between drawing and building is at once obvious. This is the kind of architecture that so much  fascinated Alberti: a massive, monumental architecture engendered  from the etiolated, reduced, bodyless elements of 'lines and angles  which comprise and form the face of the building'; 21 an architecture  made through drawing and made of the same species of illusion as is to  be found in drawing. For into its patterns of lines stopping and starting we project, by a well understood reflex of overdetermination,l 1 a  deeper space."[INPUT: Evans - 1986 - Translations from drawing to building.pdf]

08. "It requires perception } of thermal and luminous phenomenon that are not visible in the same sense as architectural space. Boundaries in the thermal or luminous environment are subtle and not sharply defined. 33 Whereas architecture as building emphasizes an iconic image—singularity and static fixity, the metaphors of architecture as organism and architecture as furnishing a larger room suggest a dynamic, open, less formal and more fluid style. By demanding recognition of something beyond the work itself these metaphors critically promote the architectural function as the intertwining of making and world producing the spatial potentiality for the intertwining of (human) organisms and environment."[(auth.), Gary Backhaus, Gary Backhaus, and John Murungi (eds.) *Symbolic Landscapes*. Springer Netherlands, 2009.]

09. "The Science Supporting the Stasis to Architecture Being an Art, 2009. j. Language of Metaphors Applied to Multidiscipline Architecture, 2009. k. Metaphor’s Interdisciplinary Axioms, 2009. l. Metaphoric Axioms for Micro Disciplinary Architecture, 2009. m. Complex Structure: Art and Architecture Stasis, 2009. n. Metaphor Axioms of Art, Architecture and Aesthetics, 2009. o. Aesthetic principles of metaphor, art and architecture 2009. p. The Six Principles of Art & Architecture’s Technical and Conceptual Metaphors, 2009. q. Metaphoric Evidence, 2009. r. Managing the Benefits and Risks of Architectural Artificial Intelligence, 2009. s. The Link Between AI and Architecture, 2009. t. Negotiate with Metaphoric Communication Tools, 2009. u."[Fez-Barringten, Barie, and Edward Hart *Architecture: The Making of Metaphors*. Cambridge Scholars Publishing, 2012.]

10. "As the architect structures his program, design and specifications he simultaneously structures the metaphor of his work of architecture. Architecture consists of program specifics where the conditions, operations, goals and ideals are from heretofore unrelated and distant contexts but are themselves metaphors “mapped across conceptual domains”. Architects translate their architectural conception from philosophy, psychology, sociology, etc. into two dimensional scaled drawings and then to real life full-scale multi-dimension conventions consisting of conventional materials, building elements (doors, windows, stairs, etc. )."[Fez-Barringten, Barie, and Edward Hart *Architecture: The Making of Metaphors*. Cambridge Scholars Publishing, 2012.]

11. "Srygley interprets the main street-like development as presenting an allegory that critiques both the suburban landscape that it extols and the urban landscape that it shuns. It presents this allegory through the architectural oxymoron of a private public space. Nevertheless, due to an urban, historical amnesia, whereby people no longer understand what quality urban space is about, this allegorical critique is not experienced, rather, the ersatz main street makes for a “successful” con. It is precisely the absence of a veritable embodied urban experience that allows for a cheap imitation “to work. ” In chapter eight, “Metaphor, Environmental Receptivity, and Architectural Design,” Brook Muller discusses the important role of metaphor in architectural design."[(auth.), Gary Backhaus, Gary Backhaus, and John Murungi (eds.) *Symbolic Landscapes*. Springer Netherlands, 2009.]

12. "Rowe argued against object-form in building and for formed external urban spaces. The correct formal partnership of architecture and urban design could be achieved if buildings did not attempt to have form as objects but rather acted to form exterior spaces. To demonstrate this he compared a ‘Nolli’ plan of Parma and Le Corbusier’s unbuilt plan for the city of Saint-Dié-des-Vosges. 22 In the latter there are buildings of generic and specific forms sited in a uniform field. Here space is merely displaced around the buildings."[Dorrian, Mark, and Frédéric Poussin (eds.) *Seeing from Above: The Aerial View in Visual Culture*. I.B.Tauris, 2013.]

13. "By very definition design is a metaphor. It is one thing to research, observe, analyze and program but another to compose these findings into metaphors and finally a single metaphor called a work of architecture. Ideally the general metaphor of the end user begets the metaphor which initializes the design process while during the design process one metaphor begets another. The process is triangulated from both the top down and the bottom up. The way metaphors are charted and combined horizontally and vertically are metaphoric insofar as each metaphor makes the strange familiar and maps one metaphor in terms of another."[Fez-Barringten, Barie, and Edward Hart *Architecture: The Making of Metaphors*. Cambridge Scholars Publishing, 2012.]

14. "But the slippage into the dystopic may also help explain why the architectural imaginary that peoples such utopic visions almost invariably produces an architecture of direct control (architecture as that which directly or neutrally facilitates the subject’s control over its political and natural environment), an architecture of political inﬂexibility. Until the dimension of time or duration has an impact on the ways in which architecture is theorized and practiced, the utopic, with its dual impossibility and necessity, will remain outside architectural reach and beyond its effect."[Grosz, Elizabeth *Architecture from the Outside: Essays on Virtual and Real Space (Writing Architecture)*. 2001.]

15. "Fig. 8. 6 Architecture as Organism: crystallization of intention encourages weakening of form Metaphor, Environmental Receptivity, and Architectural Design 199 8. 5. 2 Entertaining New Vocabularies: Edge/Corridor Effects Research is underway to develop alternative building materials, to advance energy performance, and to more efficiently “harvest” on site resources so as to minimize “off-site” environmental problems."[(auth.), Gary Backhaus, Gary Backhaus, and John Murungi (eds.) *Symbolic Landscapes*. Springer Netherlands, 2009.]