Created: 2025-12-26 01:36:42
Origin: suggested
Selected: Then, there’s a simple neutral sisal rug on the floor, which adds texture, ties into the color of the beige floor squares, and adds a little calm to the room. Sofa: quiet. Also beigey. Pillows: mixture of quiet and “wow,” drawing from the other patterns, colors, and materials in the room to inform a balance of “wow” on an otherwise neutral piece. This might sound a little milquetoast at first glance, but then POP![Salway, Christina, and Monica Pedersen *Home improvement projects for the busy & broke: how to get your $h!t together and live like an adult*. Skyhorse Publishing, 2016.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Then, there’s a simple neutral sisal rug on the floor, which adds texture, ties into the color of the beige floor squares, and adds a little calm to the room. Sofa: quiet. Also beigey. Pillows: mixture of quiet and “wow,” drawing from the other patterns, colors, and materials in the room to inform a balance of “wow” on an otherwise neutral piece. This might sound a little milquetoast at first glance, but then POP!"[Salway, Christina, and Monica Pedersen *Home improvement projects for the busy & broke: how to get your $h!t together and live like an adult*. Skyhorse Publishing, 2016.]

02. "FLOOR PAGE 77 1626 Ninja-proofing: should any assassin attempt to pass unnoticed into the shogun's quarters at Kyoto's Ninomaru Palace,  the "Nightingale floor" (uguisu bari), squeaks to alert inhabitants to danger through a system of metal clamps rubbing against  nails beneath the floorboards. PAGE 78 FLOOR Restoration of Ç atal Hüyük, Turkey, one of the world's first cities, dating from ca. 6,500-5,000 BC.  The floor is clad with woven grass matting, with communal space broken into platforms for sleeping  and other uses. Many houses contain graves under the floors of the living areas. "[INPUT: floor.pdf]

03. "Special metal fasteners for the floor boards, placed all along the length of each wooden beam,  chirped under the slightest pressure. Not just the stray creak of an ordinary wood floor, this floor  made the sound of a flock of birds. Built into the corridors of several temples and the Dijo Castle  FLOOR PAGE 55 2013 On April 1st, Virgin airlines releases renderings of the world's first  glass-bottomed airplane, an "experience that will enable . . . passengers  to appreciate the beauty of the British landscape. ""[INPUT: floor.pdf]

04. "But the Old English flor (1,000 AD), meaning floor, ground, pavement, and bottom (as in the bottom PAGE 8 FLOOR 2014 Featureless and soundless (except for sneakers, which squeak on it), an architecture office's expansive  gray rubber floor, by manufacturers Nora, provides the most neutral possible platform for work. of a lake), could be both an Indoor and an outdoor condition. 3 The threshing floor -  an outdoor floor  technology predating the ancients -  was a bit of hardened or paved ground for stamping, thrashing  or grinding grain, often located on high ground to catch the wind."[INPUT: floor.pdf]

05. "• Have spaces been made visually varied and interesting by using changing ceiling heights and soffit areas as well as nonrectangular spaces?• When appropriate, are rhythmic or sequential spatial experiences provided?• Are the proportions of walls and spaces esthetically pleasing?| 101 102 | Developing a Rough Floor Plan With the rough floor plan nearing completion, now is the time to test and evaluate its three-dimensional potential."[Karlen, Mark, and Rob Fleming *Space Planning Basics*. 4th ed. Wiley, 2016.]

06. "At the waiting area, the wood floor pattern breaks the normal long-running board pattern with cross-stitched short boards slowing the visitor down. In the lounge area a brick floor with a simple running bond pattern define the informal dining area. At the kitchen visitors walk on an antiqued hexagonal brick floor. Even in the bathrooms, a carefully considered large stone floor pattern support a larger series of discrete experiences that work overall to quietly engage the visitor into quiet contemplation."[Du (Editor), Darren *New Art Deco Style*. Design Media Publishing Ltd, 2011.]

07. "Floor Finish A concrete floor can be finished with a sand and cement screed. By adding a floating floor it can provide good resistance to impact sound (from footsteps etc). This usually involves separating the floor finish from the structure by a thin layer of resilient material, ie a material that will return to its original size after being compressed."[MBEng, Duncan Marshall BSc MCIOB, and Derek Worthing BSc Mphil MRICS *The Construction of Houses, Fourth Edition*. 4th ed. Estates Gazette Ltd, 2006.]

08. "Thus, if a floor-ceiling assembly is in IIC 61, its INR is 61 - 51 = 10. Typically, an assembly consisting of oak flooring, !-in. plywood sub floor , 2 X 10 wood joists and !-in. gypsumboard ceiling is in IIC 23. If the floor is carpeted, IIC rises to 48. Similarly, an 8-in. concrete floor slab is in IIC 35, but when it is carpeted, IIC increases to 57. These results indicate that a thick carpet over a good pad is an effective isolator of impact sounds."[Merritt, Frederick S., and James Ambrose (auth.) *Building Engineering and Systems Design*. Springer US, 1989.]

09. "These added drawing elements make for more easily read and communicative floor plans. Consistency in technique and strong communicative drawings are essential to the success of all designers, students and professionals alike. Refining the Rough Plan The development of the rough floor plan, as described in Chapter 6, suggests significant review and evaluation within the plan development process."[Karlen, Mark, and Rob Fleming *Space Planning Basics*. 4th ed. Wiley, 2016.]

10. "The textural details of previous occupants are kept intact 4. There is a map-like pattern on the concrete floor 5. It is a space of pure white 6. Different areas have different lightings 1. 白色的墙壁从天花板一直延伸到地板 2. 顾客在等候时可以阅读杂志 3. 从前租户所留下的印记被原封不动地保留了下来 4. 水泥地面上有一块类似地图的图案 5. 这是一个纯白的空间 6. 不同区域的灯光不同 1 4 5 2 3 3 6 230 - 231 1. Reception 2. Waiting area 3. Cutting area 4."[Chang, Catherine *Beauty Salons*. Liaoning Science & Technology Publishing House, Profession Design Press, 2011.]

11. "The walls are a large “plane. ” The sofa is a large “plane. ” The floor coverings and floor are large planes. My apartment might be a fun example to analyze . . . Our dining room and living room have zany painted floors—a deep beigey color coupled with a crisp white to make a wild, but not too wild, checkerboard floor. The walls pull from the white in the floor—a quiet “plane” in contrast with the “pop” of the painted floors."[Salway, Christina, and Monica Pedersen *Home improvement projects for the busy & broke: how to get your $h!t together and live like an adult*. Skyhorse Publishing, 2016.]

12. "à terre [ah tehr]—On the floor; refers to movements performed with the working leg touching the floor as opposed to in the air."[Kassing, Gayle *Beginning ballet*. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2013.]

13. "Exceptions to this would be rooms below ground level where damp could damage the timber, rooms which were likely to be wet due to their function, eg kitchens and sculleries, and some working class terraced housing built with clay block floors or stone flags. NB For more information on timber see Chapter 11- Timber-Frame Housing. The floor (often referred to as a raised timber floor or suspended floor) consists of a series of joists supported by the loadbearing walls and covered with floorboards."[MBEng, Duncan Marshall BSc MCIOB, and Derek Worthing BSc Mphil MRICS *The Construction of Houses, Fourth Edition*. 4th ed. Estates Gazette Ltd, 2006.]

14. "Also, the nails should be ringed or barbed to prevent them from working upward and causing bulges !642 Building Engineering and Systems Design in the floor covering. With thin, resilient floor coverings, not only do imperfections in the floor cause unsightly waves in the flooring but they also cause uneven wear of the flooring, shortening its useful life ."[Merritt, Frederick S., and James Ambrose (auth.) *Building Engineering and Systems Design*. Springer US, 1989.]

15. "The flats have upper floors formed in pre-cast concrete. A concrete floor (and its floor finish) provides better fire protection and sound insulation than the timber floor shown above. When the planks have been laid they are grouted to fill any holes or gaps. A 75mm screed forms the base for the resilient chipboard/foam finishing layer. Because the concrete floor and applied screed will contain construction moisture they are separated from the floor decking by a polythene vapour control layer."[MBEng, Duncan Marshall BSc MCIOB, and Derek Worthing BSc Mphil MRICS *The Construction of Houses, Fourth Edition*. 4th ed. Estates Gazette Ltd, 2006.]