Created: 2025-11-08 00:52:46
Origin: searched
Selected: The starting point is an investigation of the idea that the concept of picture writing might provide a way of thinking about writing within the human-computer interface, as some suggest (for example, Bolter, 2001). As a user moves through the artwork, it becomes clear that the concept of picture writing has a very weak foundation and is a meaningless and rather ethnocentric term. Instead, an integrationist theory is offered as an alternative way to think about writing at the human-computer interface.[Toolan, Michael *Language Teaching: Integrational Linguistic Approaches (Routledge Advances in Communication and Linguistic Theory)*. 2008.]

--- Context List ---
01. "The starting point is an investigation of the idea that the concept of picture writing might provide a way of thinking about writing within the human-computer interface, as some suggest (for example, Bolter, 2001). As a user moves through the artwork, it becomes clear that the concept of picture writing has a very weak foundation and is a meaningless and rather ethnocentric term. Instead, an integrationist theory is offered as an alternative way to think about writing at the human-computer interface."[Toolan, Michael *Language Teaching: Integrational Linguistic Approaches (Routledge Advances in Communication and Linguistic Theory)*. 2008.]

02. "Harris’s integrationist theory of writing provides a vigorous solution that manages to clearly tease writing apart from the transcription of speech, which is just one of writing’s possible uses. Instead, writing is (re)aligned with spatial configurations in general (Harris, 1995). Postcard From Tunis presents an integrationist exploration of writing and its possible transformations at the human-computer interface. Pictures are not dominated by writing, as is so often the case in language learning and elsewhere, but instead the two are treated as complementary facets of one integrated form of communication, that is, spatial communication."[Toolan, Michael *Language Teaching: Integrational Linguistic Approaches (Routledge Advances in Communication and Linguistic Theory)*. 2008.]

03. "The use of the term ‘genre’ in this programme is related to ethnographic and multi-modal approaches to academic literacies, including the social practice perspective provided by ‘New Literacy Studies’. This can be seen in the ways in which the teachers asked questions relating to the Mode and Genre Switching model illustrated in Figure 15. 1."[Maybin, Janet, and Joan Swann *The Routledge Companion to English Language Studies (Routledge Companions)*. 2009.]

04. "In some cases, the students reported that the teachers in their regular school would follow a discussion by asking them to ‘write it up’ without necessarily making explicit the different requirements as they switched genre and mode from speech to writing or from notes to essays. In the Academic Literacy Development Programme, explicit attention was focused on such switching, transformation and the changing of meanings and representations from one genre and mode to another and participants were encouraged to discuss how this often involves a different ‘mix’ of two or more genres and modes, such as the notion that writing always creates meaning through layout as well as through the use of words."[Maybin, Janet, and Joan Swann *The Routledge Companion to English Language Studies (Routledge Companions)*. 2009.]

05. ". . Writers are not only inscribing text. They are also repeatedly rereading text that they’ve written, revising text as they write as well as going back later to revise, pausing to read other texts (their own notes, texts they have written, source materials, inspirations), pausing to think and plan. (Prior 2004: 170) The context of production and the activities that this encompasses are seen as part of the whole practice of text production. A text is accomplished through the organisation of language resources, but its meaning relies on its relationship to other previous texts, other similar texts and to the knowledge brought to its reading by a reader."[Maybin, Janet, and Joan Swann *The Routledge Companion to English Language Studies (Routledge Companions)*. 2009.]

06. "Pairs such as topic vs. comment and focus, thema vs. rhema, are known as key concepts in this field of research. In the joint contribution of Wolfgang Klein and Christiane von S tut ter heim to this volume, topic and focus are reanalysed on the basis of a more general conception of the functioning of texts as structured entities of language. A coherent text—such as a narrative, a route description, or a recipe—is considered to answer an (explicit or implicit) question, the quaestio of the text, such as "What happened at time tt?"[Dietrich, Rainer, and Carl F Graumann *Language processing in social context*. North-Holland, 1989.]

07. "Through interacting with the work, users create a variety of different signs, which, like those in Postcard From Tunis, offer an experience of the integrationist view of writing, rather than simply information about it. Despite being expressed in a familiar script, the work again offers users an experience of the view of writing as spatial configurations and of no fi xed boundaries existing between writing and pictures. 118 Sally Pryor Figure 5. 6. Still from Postcards From Writing where rollover activity differentiates a written sign from a written form."[Toolan, Michael *Language Teaching: Integrational Linguistic Approaches (Routledge Advances in Communication and Linguistic Theory)*. 2008.]

08. "What is critical here is only that the Easter Islanders were evidently adept at symbolizing ideas with graphical symbols. As Roy Harris (1995) has argued, writing, insofar as it is a form of graphical communication, shares with other forms of graphical communication the property of using two-dimensional space. Thus, it inherits tables and other graphical ways of organizing information from non-linguistic symbol systems. Whatever function those graphical devices have in these non-linguistic systems carry over in part or in whole to versions that involve true writing."[Sproat, Richard *Language, Technology, and Society*. 2010.]

09. "No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, without the prior permission in writing of Oxford University Press, or as expressly permitted by law, or under terms agreed with the appropriate reprographics rights organization. Enquiries concerning reproduction outside the scope of the above should be sent to the Rights Department, Oxford University Press, at the address above You must not circulate this book in any other binding or cover and you must impose the same condition on any acquirer British Library Cataloguing in Publication Data Data available Library of Congress Cataloguing in Publication Data Library of Congress Control Number: 2010920353 Typeset by SPI Publisher Services, Pondicherry, India Printed in Great Britain on acid-free paper by Clays Ltd. , St Ives Plc ISBN 978–0–19–954938–2 1 3 5 7 9 10 8 6 4 2 Contents Preface List of Figures and Tables vii ix 1 Preliminaries 1 2 Writing as a Language Technology 9 3 How Writing Represents Language 30 4 Decipherment 77 5 Writing, Literacy, and Society 113 6 A Brief History of Mechanized Speech and Language Technology 142 7 Modern Speech Technology 188 8 Language Processing and Translation 216 9 The Future 242 10 Further Reading 256 Glossary Phonetic Symbols Notes Bibliography Index 259 262 263 273 279 This page intentionally left blank Preface In 1986, soon after I arrived at AT&T Bell Laboratories as a postdoc, I received an offer of an assistant professor position in a linguistics department at a major university."[Sproat, Richard *Language, Technology, and Society*. 2010.]

10. "I had a chance to dabble in machine translation and information extraction. My interest in speech synthesis, and in particular the problem of how to get computers to read from ordinary text, got me interested in the question of how text actually represents language, and thus how writing systems work. The present book is in many ways a synthesis of a wide variety of areas that it has been my good fortune to work on over the years. The book also grew out of a course that I developed during my five and a half years at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, which was called ‘Language, Technology and Society’."[Sproat, Richard *Language, Technology, and Society*. 2010.]

11. "Here, the drama coincides with photography, and perhaps, technology at large. Somewhere near the sites where writing encounters experience, where the inescapable necessity of representation coincides with its breakdown, where theories dissolve themselves and perhaps not only themselves: sites of doubling, of repetition, entropy of exteriorisations (of mourning, as some might say). Reading aloud, underestimated and dismissed as it may be in Western culture, may allow another insight to writing, perhaps the strange, unheard-of experience of another, a siteless citing, while at once exposing it to its final dissolution."[Wood, John *The Virtual Embodied: Presence Practice Technology*. 1998.]

12. "require a temporal sequencing. To summarize, a coherent text, produced as an answer to a question, involves a referential movement within various semantic domains—we shall say here domains of reference—such as persons, place, time, and others. This referential movement is reflected in the use of specific linguistic devices such as, for example, the use of anaphoric elements rather than indefinite noun phrases, and in the choice of a particular word order, intonation contour, etc. We can now state the main thesis of this paper: The structure of a text is constrained on both global and local levels by the nature of the question which the text in its entirety is produced to answer."[Dietrich, Rainer, and Carl F Graumann *Language processing in social context*. North-Holland, 1989.]

13. "", excluding temporal reference as a structuring device, suggesting either an object-oriented organization or a structure which follows the spatial organization of the picture. The characteristics of the first text segment with respect to the referential movement correspond to what has been said for descriptive texts. The referential fillers show properties typical for this text type: the time reference is unspecified, and the predicates are all unbounded states. At the end of text CI the same picture emerges again."[Dietrich, Rainer, and Carl F Graumann *Language processing in social context*. North-Holland, 1989.]

14. "This is an important dimension of the research since it focuses on relations of power in the production of knowledge, especially when it incorporates the constitution of the ‘critical’ psychologist as subject acting upon him or herself. So, there is a need to open up this space and to focus on the negotiations of this rather unusual human subject in its environment. At the same time though, I’m very interested in what I see as some of the limitations posed to the examination of pedagogic institution from a post-structural framework and this has led me to develop comparative methods in research between post-structuralism and more traditional empirical approaches."[Wood, John *The Virtual Embodied: Presence Practice Technology*. 1998.]

15. "Thus, the composition of a story requires both a search and an evaluative process that selects and discards items found during the search. (p. 138) Schank (1990: 203–204) argues that the process is shaped by language and culture and that to prepare students to actually communicate in a foreign language, FL instruction should shift focus from grammar to canonical stories or frames of reference. The studies reviewed here support Bruner’s (1987), Rubin’s (1998) and Schank’s (1990) view of the role of language and culture in organization of autobiographical memory and show that different narrative traditions place different values on inner experience, shared reminiscing, and life-storytelling, ascribe significance (tellability) to different types of events, focus attention on different aspects of events, and use different temporal and causal schemas to link individual memories into a coherent whole."[A., Pavlenko *The Bilingual Mind: And What It Tells Us about Language And Thought*. draft. CUP, 2014.]