Created: 2025-12-13 15:15:47
Origin: searched
Selected: A work of art has a twofold existence. For every work of art is a πόλεμος (polemos), a contention between two impulses—one towards form and against form.[Virgulti, Ernesto, Leslie Boldt, and Corrado Federici *Silence and the Silenced: Interdisciplinary Perspectives*. New York: Peter Lang Publishing Inc, 2013.]

--- Context List ---
01. "In general, this kind of work promises to impact architecture on a variety  of levels. First, by making the designer’s workflow more integrated: from  conception, to representation, to material realization as data manipulated within  the software environment will be directly employed in the design stage—for  example, through rapid manufacturing. On a disciplinary level the implications  of moving from the frictionless and material-less space of current software  204 ﻿Digital Architecture Beyond Computers to a voxel-based one are profound and could mark a radical departure from  boundary-defined architecture firmly relying on geometrical reductivism toward  more continuous, processual notion of space."[INPUT: Bottazzi - 2020 - Digital architecture beyond computers fragments of a cultural history of computational design.pdf]

02. "With these two approaches to textures ready at hand we might now be ready to think about our surrounding in terms of textures (i. e. the ability to “read” textures), and we might be ready to both structurally plan for changes in the current textures of our built environment (i. e. the re-writing texturation approach typically labeled “architecture”). Still, in order to understand and work with the so-called “new architecture” including e. g. the area of IA – interactive architecture we need to apply this thinking to modern information technology as a design material possible to texturize, read, and re-write."[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

03. "Following this simple model as outlined in Figure 82 I then challenge this set of concepts from an interaction design perspective (arrow 2) in an attempt to refine concepts with roots in both the field of architecture, and in interaction design, i. e. an architectural register for interaction (arrow 3). Through this interlinking of architecture and interaction design we seek to establish a foundation for interactive architecture in which no separation of digital material is made apart from other materials that constitute parts of our built environment."[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

04. "If reviewing the work done in-between these two strands of research, i. e. work specifically conducted to address “interactive architecture” as such we find some good examples including Bullivant´s work on responsive environments (Bullivant, 2006), interactive architecture (Bullivant, 2005), and interactive design environments (Bullivant, 2007). Further on, Spiller´s work on reflexive architecture (Spiller, 2002) and Kolarevic & Malkawi´s work on performative architecture (2005) adds to our understanding of this phenomenon."[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

05. "The possibilities provided by rapid-prototyping machines to combine  different types of materials can only be exploited through the development of  software interfaces that can directly work with material densities. Although this  area of research is still at an embryonic stage, examples such as Monolith—a  piece of software designed by Andrew Payne and Panagiotis Michalatos— begin to reveal such potentials as this modeling tool allows designers to work  in a voxel space and therefore include material densities—albeit represented  through color channels—from the outset. 10 A multi-material approach to design  represents a very interesting area of research largely debated among architects  and designers, which is also likely to grow in importance in the near future."[INPUT: Bottazzi - 2020 - Digital architecture beyond computers fragments of a cultural history of computational design.pdf]

06. "In summary, however, what the MIME work reinforces is that there is a potential role in practice for such mediating frameworks as the Loeales Framework or the Grounded Innovation Map that can sit in-between understanding and design. 216 LOCALES FRAMEWORK Embodied Interaction Paul Dourish (2001 b) has recently outlined a new foundational approach to the design of interactive systems called 'embodied interaction '. He develops the embodied interaction perspective by first observing that social computing (of which CSCW is an example) and tangible computing share a common basis: that we experience the world by engaging direct1y with it and so both consequently draw on the same set of human skills and abilities."[(auth.), Geraldine Fitzpatrick *The Locales Framework: Understanding and Designing for Wicked Problems*. Springer Netherlands, 2003.]

07. "It also takes place at a community level when I reftect on these personal experiences against those of the broader community to generalise or abstract learnings, and to evolve a new abstraction that can facilitate better communication between understanding and designing. In line with the iterative nature of wicked problems, the dialogue builds from the background of work presented in this chapter. Various tenets from this work formed foundational positions, namely: • That cooperative work is complex, dynamic, situated, and contingent, and is intricately and inextricably woven into the workaday world for the individuals involved • That computer-based support needs to fit into this workaday world • That systems designers need/use/like frameworks or abstractions as a basis for system design; that action-based models ofwork are an insufficient basis from which to provide support • That the theoretical approaches currently being used were not developed to provide practical insights to design The CSCW Design Challenge 43 Concepts from Strauss' (1993) theory of action, as previously discussed, were particularly inftuential."[(auth.), Geraldine Fitzpatrick *The Locales Framework: Understanding and Designing for Wicked Problems*. Springer Netherlands, 2003.]

08. "This was one of the first explicit attempts by social scientists (in collaboration with computer scientists) to draw out such a high-level conceptual structure relevant to design. Because this work is very sirnilar to the Locales Framework, I will discuss it further in Chapter 9. It is interesting to see this pattern repeated when social scientists and designers work closely together, as with the more recent MIME project 15 looking at media in the domestic environment (Diggins et al. , 2001). The ethnographers and designers developed a structured representation for data called a Grounded 40 LOCALES FRAMEWORK Innovation Map, organising data into concepts around design-relevant nodes of time, people, things, and space."[(auth.), Geraldine Fitzpatrick *The Locales Framework: Understanding and Designing for Wicked Problems*. Springer Netherlands, 2003.]

09. "Observation and analysis (accomplished through drawing) can inform the design process and elevate the quality of one’s work. Our approach to the material outlined in this book is unique in its design focus, chronological organization, and visual orientation. Presenting landscape history chronologically enables the reader to make cross-cultural connections and to understand how common themes may manifest themselves at different times, and to appreciate design trends that are truly unique."[Sullivan, Chip, and Elizabeth Boults *Illustrated History of Landscape Design*. Wiley, 2010.]

10. ". . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 109 . . . . . 157 . . . . . 123 C (programming language) CAD Framework Initiative. . . . . . . . . 125 13, 142, 147 186 CAD Frameworks: Integration Technology for CAD architecture benefits. . . CFI 1. 0 . . . . component information representation design methodology management . design representation . futures . . . . . . . . . . . . goals and deliverables . . . inter-tool communication . organization. participants . . . . . . pilot projects. . . . . . systems environment. technology CAD user interface . CAD Frameworks."[Barnes, Timothy J., David Harrison, A. Richard Newton, and Rick L. Spickelmier (auth.) *Electronic CAD Frameworks*. Springer US, 1992.]

11. "Active research in general purpose user interfaces is now focusing tools for automatically building widget based applications from high-level descriptions. The pioneering work in this area was done in the middle 1980s by Apollo Computer Corporation in what is now known as their MOTIF system. Recently, Apollo has agreed to work on making this technology widely available pOSSibly through a specification that may become industry standard. Current work focuses on specifying interfaces using a combination of a special purpose language description for specifying the interaction and control of widgets and interactive editors for layout and prototyping."[Barnes, Timothy J., David Harrison, A. Richard Newton, and Rick L. Spickelmier (auth.) *Electronic CAD Frameworks*. Springer US, 1992.]

12. "In the past few years, attempts have been made to apply generalpurpose object-oriented database systems to engineering design problems (see for example [BREU88, GUPT89]). Early work showed discouragingly slow performance, and ongoing work is focussed on replacing the generic routines provided by such systems with techniques specific to engineering databases [GUPT89]."[Barnes, Timothy J., David Harrison, A. Richard Newton, and Rick L. Spickelmier (auth.) *Electronic CAD Frameworks*. Springer US, 1992.]

13. "Digital Architecture  Beyond  Computers ii Digital Architecture  Beyond Computers Fragments of a Cultural  History of Computational  Design Roberto Bottazzi BLOOMSBURY VISUAL ARTS Bloomsbury Publishing Plc 50 Bedford Square, London, WC1B 3DP, UK BLOOMSBURY, BLOOMSBURY VISUAL ARTS and the Diana logo are  trademarks of Bloomsbury Publishing Plc First published in Great Britain 2018 Copyright © Roberto Bottazzi, 2018 Roberto Bottazzi has asserted his right under the Copyright, Designs  and Patents Act, 1988, to be identified as Author of this work. "[INPUT: Bottazzi - 2020 - Digital architecture beyond computers fragments of a cultural history of computational design.pdf]

14. "All through this article I write about Mr. Epstein's work in a way which I recognise to be wrong, in that it is what an artist would call literary. The appreciation of a work of art must be plastic or nothing. But I defend myself in this way, that I am not so much writing directly about Mr. Epstein's work, as engaged in the more negative and quite justifiable business of attempting to protect the spectator from certain prejudices which are in themselves literary."[(Ed.), Sam Hynes *Further Speculations by T.E. Hulme*. 2011.]

15. "A work of art has a twofold existence. For every work of art is a πόλεμος (polemos), a contention between two impulses—one towards form and against form."[Virgulti, Ernesto, Leslie Boldt, and Corrado Federici *Silence and the Silenced: Interdisciplinary Perspectives*. New York: Peter Lang Publishing Inc, 2013.]