Created: 2025-11-23 00:54:08
Origin: searched
Selected: Let me give an illustration. I have myself exchanged umbrellas—often. I hope I have done  it honestly, but one can never be quite sure. Indeed,  now I come to think of it, that silk umbrella itself was  not mine. It was one of a long series of exchanges in  which I had sometimes gained and sometimes lost. My most memorable exchange was at a rich man’s  house where I had been invited to dine with some  politicians. It was summer-time, and the weather  being dry I had not occasion for some days afterwards to carry an umbrella.[INPUT: A Quantum City.pdf]

--- Context List ---
01. "Let me give an illustration. I have myself exchanged umbrellas—often. I hope I have done  it honestly, but one can never be quite sure. Indeed,  now I come to think of it, that silk umbrella itself was  not mine. It was one of a long series of exchanges in  which I had sometimes gained and sometimes lost. My most memorable exchange was at a rich man’s  house where I had been invited to dine with some  politicians. It was summer-time, and the weather  being dry I had not occasion for some days afterwards to carry an umbrella."[INPUT: A Quantum City.pdf]

02. "But obviously I must have. M: Anyway, don’t worry about it now. F: I suppose it slipped out of my bag earlier, when it started raining and I was looking for my umbrella. I was more concerned about not getting wet than about where I was going. I think the man who checks them on the door thought I was making up some story. M: At least you had the money to get another one. F: But it was so embarrassing!Extract six You hear part of an interview with a young businessman. F: Here with me in the studio today is Ken Brunswick, one of the city’s most successful businessmen – and one of the youngest."[Nick, Kenny, and Luque-Mortimer Lucrecia. *FCE Practice Tests Plus 2 - 2015. Audioscripts*. 2017.]

03. "Р-428 • КАК РЫ́БКЕ 〈РЫ́БЕ〉 ЗО́НТИК нужен highly coll [как + NP; these forms only; adv (neg intensif ) ] completely unnecessary, of no use to s. o. : (be as much use to s. o. )as an umbrella to a duck; (need sth. )like 〈as〉 a duck needs an umbrella. Р-429 • НЕ УЧИ́ РЫ́БУ ПЛА́ВАТЬ [saying] a person who is expert at what he does has no need of another’s advice: ≃ fish do not need to be taught how to swim. Р-430 • Я 〈ты, он и т. п. 〉 РЫ́ЖИЙ coll [VPsubj with бытьø, pres only; usu. in questions or neg] (said sarcastically, often with aggravation, when one is left out, ignored, not treated as well as the others etc) I am (you are etc) worse than the others: что я, рыжий?"[Lubensky, Sophia *Russian-English Dictionary of Idioms, Revised Edition*. Blg Rev. Yale University Press, 2014.]

04. "I slung open the boot, threw a bag in and bent down to check it was properly in. At this point the boot sprang back unexpectedly and whacked me on the top of the head. It hurt like hell and blood started gushing from the wound. Shit, what to do?Casualty?Lie down?Ignore it?I went back in the house, got an enormous wodge of kitchen towel, bunched it up and held it on top of my head. I then drove up to the West End with one hand, using the other to keep the blood-soaked wodge of kitchen towel on my head."[Brand, Jo *Can't stand up for sitting down*. London, Great Britain: Headline Review, 2011.]

05. "Crop up – to happen suddenly. After five years of running smoothly, all sorts of little problems started to crop up with the car. Cross a bridge when one comes unto it – to deal with a problem only when it comes up, not in advance. I’m not going to worry about the wedding reception seating yet; instead, I’ll cross that bridge when we get back the R. S. V. P. s. 80 Cross one’s fingers – to hope and pray for something to happen."[Sera, Lucia *A Boatload of Idioms: Over a thousand English expressions*. Vocalis Ltd., 2004.]

06. "Плохи времена, подумал дядя Сандро, если этот табачник взялся за оружие (Искандер 3). Times are bad, thought Uncle Sandro, if this tobacco grower has taken up arms (3a). О-116 • НОСИ́ТЬ ОРУ́ЖИЕ [VP; subj: human; usu. infin. after способный, уметь etc] (to be able, know how etc) to use arms and (be in adequate physical condition) to put that ability to use: X способен носить оружие ≃ X is able to bear 〈capable of bearing〉 arms. О-119 • БРЯЦА́ТЬ 〈ПОТРЯСА́ТЬ〉 ОРУ́ЖИЕМ lit [VP; subj: human or collect] to threaten with military action, attack; by extension to threaten with hostile actions: X-ы начали бряцать оружием ≃ Xs began to brandish weapons 〈to rattle their sabers〉."[Lubensky, Sophia *Russian-English Dictionary of Idioms, Revised Edition*. Blg Rev. Yale University Press, 2014.]

07. "Б-25 • БАРА́ШЕК В БУМА́ЖКЕ obs [NP; sing only; usu. obj; fixed WO] a bribe: palm oil 〈grease〉; hush money. Б-26 • СИДЕ́ ТЬ БА́РИНОМ 〈КАК БА́РИН〉 coll [VP; subj: human] to be idle while everyone else is working cooperatively: X сидит барином ≃ X sits around like royalty; X sits on his hands. Б-32 • БАШ НА БАШ highly coll [NP; Invar; fixed WO] 1. ~ менять(ся), обменивать и т. п. [adv] (in refer. to goods) (to exchange) one thing for another without additional payment, without adding anything: (make) an even swap 〈trade〉; (make) a straight 〈equal〉 swap."[Lubensky, Sophia *Russian-English Dictionary of Idioms, Revised Edition*. Blg Rev. Yale University Press, 2014.]

08. "My sister leaves on Christmas Day to be with her family. My parents leave the following morning. I put them in a cab and go directly to the gym. In general, there is no colder, no more clinical nor honest referendum on one’s desirability than the gym, specifically the steam room at the gym. One’s powers of conversation, one’s wit, books one might have written, even one’s pretty eyes won’t get you very far. But lo, behold three randy Magi, bearing not frankincense or myrrh, nor gold but for a thin chain on one of them, with little more than towels (and barely towels, at that), and yet with these humble gifts do we provide one another succor, diversion, release."[Rakoff, David *Half Empty*. Doubleday, 2010.]

09. "I head directly across the river via the pedestrian bridge to St. Paul’s Cathedral (very spooky organ music is playing inside—big, ominous chords). The revolving entrance door has these words on it: That’s quite a claim for a revolving door!I guess it says it backward when you’re inside. What’s Music For?My friend C and I have lunch with two youngish guys who run an art gallery here while its owners are out of town—one is a thin German man who has just moved here a few months ago and the other is an Englishman transplanted from another local gallery."[Byrne, David *Bicycle Diaries*. Viking Adult, 2009.]

10. "Base-jump. Bungee-jump. Parasail. Go kiteboarding in an exotic locale. Go surfing on a wave bigger than you. Dogsled. Fire an Uzi (at a target, not at the post office). Sky-dive. Sleep in a tree. Experience weightlessness. Ice-fish. Ride a Harley. Pilot a snowmobile. Participate in a crash derby. Walk on a live volcano."[Burke, Tim, and Michael Burke *Die Happy: 499 Things Every Guy's Gotta Do While He Still Can*. St. Martin's Griffin, 2006.]

11. ""It took almost an hour by taxi, which means. . . ""Yeah, if we walk to the station, it'll take until morning. "I felt a wave of despair. Misaki pulled at me. "There's an abandoned home nearby, but. . . ""An abandoned home?""My house. "After about a ten minute walk, we came to the abandoned house. The window panes were shattered, and a large hole had opened in the front door. We spent the whole night in a house that looked about ready to collapse."[Takimoto, Tatsuhiko *Welcome to the NHK*. 2007.]

12. "Hera 752 MANNER The old man hesitated, then said: “Do so: it serves  those right who are caught in such scrapes. ” SOURCE: Bel Ami TV SERIES Desperate Housewives Marc Cherry 2004 FADE IN: EXT. SUBURBAN STREET—DAY We’re DRIVING down a tree-lined suburban street.  We finally stop at a well-kept UPPER MIDDLE-CLASS  house complete with white picket fence. MARY ALICE (V. O. ) My name is Mary Alice Scott. When you read this  morning’s paper you may come across an article  about the unusual day I had last week. "[INPUT: A Quantum City.pdf]

13. "His powerful hands hung limply at his sides. He was crying. His solid square face was cracked and broken. Like someone had swung a baseball bat hard at the center. “What am I going to do?” he said. “What am I going to do?” The funeral parlor had deep brown carpeting. The walls were wood paneled. There was an oil painting of a house on one. Lori was standing at the entrance to the chapel. Her white face shuddered, opened and closed and opened around a single long sob. I walked toward her with my arms half-spread, mumbling condolences."[Clune, Michael W *White Out: The Secret Life of Heroin*. Hazelden, 2013.]

14. "Today, when the sun sets, I go weakly forth To lie down in my damp bed. My tired and heavy brain— Oh, I can't go on. I can't go on!Because I had used the pornographic comics as a pillow when I fell asleep on the floor, I woke up with a terrible headache. Yamazaki had dozed off, resting his head on his desk. I gently shook his shoulders. "What about school?""I'm taking today off" Saying this, Yamazaki closed his eyes again. Returning to my own room, I sprawled across my bed. I swallowed an aspirin and went back to sleep."[Takimoto, Tatsuhiko *Welcome to the NHK*. 2007.]

15. "1. The kid was running in the supermarket and bumoed into an elderly lady. 2. I bumped into an old friend at the bank yesterday. Bundle of nerves – a description of someone who is very anxious. Before her big test, Marie was a bundle of nerves. Burn a hole in one’s pocket – to be consumed with the desire to spend the money one has. Julia got her paycheck on Thursday, and it was burning a whole in her pocket by Friday."[Sera, Lucia *A Boatload of Idioms: Over a thousand English expressions*. Vocalis Ltd., 2004.]