Created: 2025-12-04 15:27:17
Origin: suggested
Selected: Writing ceases to be a mirror. It will constitute itself, strangely, as an absolute of writing and of voice. A "mute written orchestration" Mallarme will say: time and space united, a successive simultaneity, an energy and a work wherein energy gathers (energeia and ergon); a tracing wherein writing breaks always in advance with what is written. Born of this pressure, beyond the book, is the project of the Work, in its very realization always yet to come; a Work without content since always going beyond what it seems to contain and affirming nothing but its own outside, that is to say, affirming itself—not as a full presence but, in relation to its absence, the absence of (a) work, worklessness.[Blanchot, Maurice *The Infinite Conversation*. University of Minnesota Press, 1993.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Weinfield, I40-I4I. - Trans. ]28. Mallarme, "Le livre instrument spirituel," CEuvres completes, 38o-38I; "The Book: A Spiritual Instrument," Mallarme: Selected Prose Poems, Essays & Letters, trans. Cook, 27-28 . This theme is already present in Planches et feuillets (I893): "A set of verses encourages an ideal representation: motifs of elation or of dreams interweave and separate, according to an order and their individuality. One part lends itself in a rhythm to the movement of thought, with which another drawing will clash: one and the other, to come NOTES TO PAGES 65-68 to completion and cease, where would intervene . . . the figure, so that the idea remain" (Mallarme, CEuvres completes, 328 [translation A. H. ])."[Lyotard, Jean-Francois *Discourse, Figure (Cultural Critique Books)*. Univ Of Minnesota Press, 2011.]

02. "This was only a preliminary sketch of this reversal, to which I will return. Poetics Depends on Deconstruction To take a detour, consider visual space, and put condensation to work there. Condensation can operate by gathering together fragments sampled on various objects. This leads to the constitution of the chimera, with each of these 32 3 DESIRE IN DISCOURSE DESIRE IN DISCOURSE fragments remaining recognizable in its own right: head of a lion, serpent's tail, etc."[Lyotard, Jean-Francois *Discourse, Figure (Cultural Critique Books)*. Univ Of Minnesota Press, 2011.]

03. "The present paper seeks to locate this epicentre, which, not surprisingly, reveals itself in an image (or rather, in a pair of images), and to begin to measure the aftershock that it generates across his work. In short, it seeks to trace, in broad outline, the path that leads from the ‘idea of poetry’ to the ‘idea of prose’; a path whose singular coherence, it suggests, finds its stunning confirmation in a short fragment by Giorgio Agamben. 2. ‘The idea of poetry is prose’: this is the ‘seeming paradoxical but in truth very profound intuition’ on which, according to Benjamin, the entire philosophy of art of early Romanticism, and especially its concept of criticism, ultimately rests, and for the sake of which his own investigation has been pursued to this point, as he writes, through so many ‘apparent digressions’. 3 ‘The reflective medium of poetic forms’, he writes, appears in prose; for this reason, prose may be called the idea of poetry."[Justin Clemens, Nicholas Heron, and Alex Murray *The Work of Giorgio Agamben: Law, Literature, Life*. 2009.]

04. "Writing ceases to be a mirror. It will constitute itself, strangely, as an absolute of writing and of voice. A "mute written orchestration" Mallarme will say: time and space united, a successive simultaneity, an energy and a work wherein energy gathers (energeia and ergon); a tracing wherein writing breaks always in advance with what is written. Born of this pressure, beyond the book, is the project of the Work, in its very realization always yet to come; a Work without content since always going beyond what it seems to contain and affirming nothing but its own outside, that is to say, affirming itself—not as a full presence but, in relation to its absence, the absence of (a) work, worklessness."[Blanchot, Maurice *The Infinite Conversation*. University of Minnesota Press, 1993.]

05. "Or, again, how can one write in such a way that the continuity of the movement of writing might let interruption as meaning, and rupture as form, intervene fundamentally?For the moment, we will put off approaching this question. Let us simply remark that any language where it is a matter of questioning rather than responding is a language already interrupted-even more, a language wherein everything begins with the decision (or the distraction) of an initial void. But let us note as well that writing—whether of an essay or a novel—runs the risk of contenting itself with a supposed continuity that will in fact be nothing but a pleasant interlacing of upstrokes and downstrokes."[Blanchot, Maurice *The Infinite Conversation*. University of Minnesota Press, 1993.]

06. "I hoped to Collaboration, Concepts, and Assemblages create a venue or venues that would facilitate the functioning of inquiry in compelling, distinctive, and significant ways. A copse of concepts guided these initial efforts, concepts drawn from the corpus of work of Dewey, Weber, and Foucault, as well as, in this instance, Deleuze. The challenge has been to make these con"" cepts function in an assemblage different from the ones in which and for which they were created."[Rabinow, Paul *The Accompaniment: Assembling the Contemporary*. University of Chicago Press, 2011.]

07. "Here the work seems to have found its certainty and consistency; books are added to books in order to constitute that beautiful Alexandria no flame will ever reach, that always finished, always unfinished Babel that is the world of literature and literature as world. Let us recognize that the immense work of culture, which makes a whole of literature and makes literature an element within a larger whole, constantly furnishes us with an alibi. The consolidation of culture allows all writers and artists, in the current of ordinary life, to feel themselves still of use amidst the values they uphold by putting them in question."[Blanchot, Maurice *The Infinite Conversation*. University of Minnesota Press, 1993.]

08. "Putting the question as I just have ("How do the deconstructions in the poetic text work?")is immediately to take sides. Indeed, thus formulated, the question amounts to adopting a negative approach toward the problem of the specificity of poetic language (since the frame of reference is the language of communication). In principle, the linguist starts from the opposite hypothesis: poetic language [langage], whatever its distance from ordinary language [langue], remains a language [langage] , and it is far more interesting to establish the internal rules governing it (intratextual relations) than to try to measure its differences with the language [langue] of reference (extratextual relations). 51 James Peter Thorne offers a particularly forceful view of this approach in an article in which he argues that an (English) poetic text is an example of another language [langage] than Standard English, and that its linguistic analysis does not require the application of other rules in addition DESIRE IN DISCOURSE to those offered by the generative and transformational grammar of ordinary English."[Lyotard, Jean-Francois *Discourse, Figure (Cultural Critique Books)*. Univ Of Minnesota Press, 2011.]

09. "As similar images in The Origin (or the Goethe essay) reveal, where Benjamin refers to the "wooded interior" of the symbol-probably a reference to Baudelaire's poem "Correspondences"-the image of the language forest serves to stress the literary work's symbolic aspect, which is to say, its being constituted by a natural unity based on natural relations between sign and content. 10 Now, translatability represents in the work of art the objective call for overcoming this still-natural unity rooted in mythical linguistic relations."[Gasche, Rodolphe *Of Minimal Things: Studies on the Notion of Relation*. Stanford University Press, 1999.]

10. "Indeed, as he notes, the value of a work is dependent solely upon whether it makes its immanent critique possible or not. ‘If this is possible’, he writes, ‘if there is present in the work a reflection that can unfold itself, absolutize itself and resolve itself in the medium of art, then it is a work of art. ’17 The possibility of criticism in the work of art – the sole scale for measuring its value – is, then, an index of its ‘criticizability [Kritisierbarkeit]’. 18 At this point, Benjamin decisively interrupts the course of his narrative through the insertion of the first of two striking interrelated figurative expressions to appear within his text and – in what will become a characteristic gesture of his writing – seeks to reconfigure this apparent paradox in the form of an image."[Justin Clemens, Nicholas Heron, and Alex Murray *The Work of Giorgio Agamben: Law, Literature, Life*. 2009.]

11. "Valery's answer to this dilemma, based on a reRection on the technique involved in the creation of an art work, fails as well, Blanchot argues. But what of the claim that this disconcerting ordeal reveals something objective about the work, something of the order of "the truth of the work, where the individual who writes-a force of creative negation-seems to join with the work in motion through which this force of negation and surpassing asserts itself" (p. 308)?This idea of a synthesis of work and individual, in Hegel's terms, the "Thing itself" ("the matter in hand itself," A. V. Miller translates), plays, Blanchot admits, "a vital role in the literary undertaking" (p. 308)."[Gasche, Rodolphe *Of Minimal Things: Studies on the Notion of Relation*. Stanford University Press, 1999.]

12. "L. Scott-Fox and M. Harding (Cambridge, Eng. : Cambridge University Press, 1980), p. 150. 15. Jacques Derrida, Of Grammatology, trans. G. C. Spivak (Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins University Press, 1976), p. 62. 16. See, for instance, Jacques Derrida, "The Law of Genre," trans. A. Ronell, in Glyph 7 (Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins University Press, 1980), and "Living On: Border Lines," in Deconstruction and Criticism, ed. H. Bloom et al. (New York: Seabury Press, 1979). 17. Another way to approach this notion of text is to conceive of it in terms of a radical empiricism, that is, as an empiricism that undoes its own philosophical foundations."[Gasche, Rodolphe *Of Minimal Things: Studies on the Notion of Relation*. Stanford University Press, 1999.]

13. "Thought, in order to attain the ‘medio’, has to orient itself towards an ‘idea of prose’, or towards an idea of poetry, but it can do so only by assuming a ‘poetic inheritance’. The ‘medio’ which already divides (philosophical) prose and (poetic) sound at the very moment each affirms its unstable identity, and which thought seeks to attain by following a double injunction, is certainly not a term placed in between the extremes, a third term adding itself to poetry and to philosophy. Faithful to the Aristotelian allusion of the text, and taking their clue from the spatial reference that assigns opposite movements to the cadence of poetry and to the sequential character of prose, the American translators of Idea of Prose render ‘medio’ as ‘middle term’. 4 However, if a third term existed, the question of the relationship, of the relationship among the three terms, would pose itself anew, and thought would be caught up within an infinite regress."[Justin Clemens, Nicholas Heron, and Alex Murray *The Work of Giorgio Agamben: Law, Literature, Life*. 2009.]

14. "Or, does the process of formation inside Becoming take the shape of a non-chronological kind of time?And, in addition to thinking about the impetus to or process of emergence, how do things manage to persist?What Harman does for us, then, is to call us to think more actively about things hanging together in a world of Becoming. Manuel De Landa and others have pursued this question via Deleuze and Guattari, whose notion of the machinic was one attempt to name the ‘processes that act on an initial set of merely coexisting, heterogeneous elements, and cause them to come together and consolidate’ (De Landa, 1997). 8 We too find the Deleuzean frame illuminating, but will combine it with the work of Michel Serres, which offers a rich conceptual-metaphorical repertoire for thinking the shapes and systemic dimensions of Becoming."[Herzogenrath, Bernd *Time and History in Deleuze and Serres*. Bloomsbury Academic, 2012.]

15. "A second answer involves referring to the attractiveness of the aesthetic structure, which directs the attitude or set of the subject to the work of art, certainly no longer only to its content - as is the case where the communicative function dominates - but also the interplay of formal and material factors which make of a text a whole valuable in itself ( ' s e l b s t w e r t i g e s ' Ganzes) . Thirdly Mukarovsky's semiotic principle,'an object not only performs but also signifies its function', holds not only for objects with a practical function but also for those with an aesthetic function."[(editor), Barry Smith *Structure and Gestalt: Philosophy and Literature in Austria-Hungary and Her Successor States*. John Benjamins Pub Co, 1981.]