Created: 2025-12-30 18:43:31
Origin: suggested
Selected: This book also emphasizes the pictorial, while remaining engaged with and aware of the interaction between text and image in the period. My terrain of study is also selected from the genre known then as now as ukiyo-e. The word ukiyo described the present as a “floating world,” and with the addition of the term e for “images,” it became linked to the domain of “pictures. ” Ukiyo was also attached to sōshi, or “written work,” and as ukiyo-zōshi, popular literature described those pleasures of the present for its readers; illustrating these stories provided opportunities for visual designers to represent the fictional world.[Davis, Julie Nelson *Partners in Print: Artistic Collaboration and the Ukiyo-e Market*. University of Hawaii Press, 2014.]

--- Context List ---
01. "The books also contain divinatory words (an illustrated context for colored scrolls), and they are filled with information of communal interest, suggesting that song and ritual speech spiritually support community welfare in much the same way that public symbols support communal identity. The mythic meanings (Friedrich 1986: 16-53) embedded in the actions, words, and symbols of modern Mixtec festivals embody the ideals and moral ethics of community existence (Monaghan 1987: 519664)."[Boone, Elizabeth Hill, and Walter D. Mignolo *Writing Without Words: Alternative Literacies in Mesoamerica and the Andes*. Duke University Press Books, 1994.]

02. "This book also emphasizes the pictorial, while remaining engaged with and aware of the interaction between text and image in the period. My terrain of study is also selected from the genre known then as now as ukiyo-e. The word ukiyo described the present as a “floating world,” and with the addition of the term e for “images,” it became linked to the domain of “pictures. ” Ukiyo was also attached to sōshi, or “written work,” and as ukiyo-zōshi, popular literature described those pleasures of the present for its readers; illustrating these stories provided opportunities for visual designers to represent the fictional world."[Davis, Julie Nelson *Partners in Print: Artistic Collaboration and the Ukiyo-e Market*. University of Hawaii Press, 2014.]

03. "Because we have sources that explain these particular scenes, we can come to a conclusion that the prescriptive or religious codices also contain a text. The core message of that text is unequivocally indicated and is clear to all who are versed in the symbol system used. However, how the text actually sounded depended on both the recitative power and the language of the reader. This brings us to an important consideration in the interpretation of Mesoamerican writing, and of writing systems in general."[Boone, Elizabeth Hill, and Walter D. Mignolo *Writing Without Words: Alternative Literacies in Mesoamerica and the Andes*. Duke University Press Books, 1994.]

04. "The eye, in its movement through the picture, takes similar pleasure in finding shapes that jingle and rhyme. These rhymes in form also serve, like the rhymes in poetry, to tie together parts that are remote from each other. These repetitions of echoes of form may be regarded as a special case of “confirming forms. ” In this case we have one form more or less literally confirming another, rather than rendering in another medium the implication of the subject matter. Investigation will show many instances of echoed form in the pictures that follow."[Mortensen, William *The command to look, a formula for picture success*. San Francisco, Calif: Feral House;Camera craft Pub. Co, 1937.]

05. "Prehistoric artefacts that depict physical deformities also raise questions about ferocity and use-value, moving ‘ugly’ connotations beyond surface visual readings towards more complex sensory-based engagements. As ‘uglies’ uncomfortably unite in the twenty-first century, arguments arise to disassociate from that label but also to appropriate it for empowering ends. Monstrous races illustrated in Hartmann Schedel, Anton Koberger, Michael Wohlgemuth and Wilhelm Pleydenwurff, Liber chronicarum (1493)."[Henderson, Gretchen E. *Ugliness: A Cultural History*. Reaktion Books, 2015.]

06. "The presence of written words, lists of them, crossed out, smudged, expresses a humiliated relation to literacy and language but also a triumphant, sardonic, playful appropriation of block lettering as a way to firework the punitive system. Every user of language must have experienced the distress of getting it wrong, and must have wanted, as an act of revenge and love, to humiliate language right back in the kisser. Every time Basquiat uses block lettering in his drawings and paintings, I imagine that he is humiliating language and expressing the ever-present possibility that language could reciprocrate the harsh treatment."[Koestenbaum, Wayne *Humiliation : big Ideas : small books*. New York: Picador, 2011.]

07. "Not insignificantly, these newly constituted subjects made their debut within a new visual mode of recording observation. The visual technology and styles Burgkmair used to express these particularities also reflect the markers that tagged other contemporary expressions of empirical investigation. This style also established the rhetoric of empirical observation—even for circumstances where this was not the case. His mixture of empirically observed and non-empirically observed particulars suggests the makings of a visual technology that applied across the board."[(auth.), Stephanie Leitch *Mapping Ethnography in Early Modern Germany: New Worlds in Print Culture*. Palgrave Macmillan US, 2010.]

08. "The term [166 TYPOLOGIA "beauty"in general belongs to objects of sight, as describing the quality of agreeableness, and depends entirely on an act of vision. It is ultimate. It lends its name also to express every. . , thing that is agreeable-a figure of speech, music, a thought. There is also, however, a form of beauty which arises from its use and aim, our nature seemingly relishing the appearance of anything answering adequately some good and useful pur. . , pose."[Goudy, Frederic W. *Typologia: Studies in Type Design and Type Making*. University of California Press, 1978.]

09. "Subjects from the humanities, social sciences and natural sciences chip in; this book gives a cultural geographic voice. Landscape also invites the colloquial; everyday talk of vernacular tone, skilled talk of vernacular tone, voices of other accent, quality and formality, also able to talk over and across one another, or to make deep chat. Accents of landscape, whether spoken or written, articulate multiplicity, with questions of technique and accomplishment, commonplace and slang, always pertinent, whether for broad dialect, tones of authority, Received Pronunciation, regional wisdom, formal poetics."[Matless, David *In the Nature of Landscape: Cultural Geography on the Norfolk Broads*. Wiley-Blackwell, 2014.]

10. "One of these is àpgôCeiv, èvappô^eiv  (to fit, join), a word that is also used for vaulting;174 thus the keystone was  called harm onia. There is also éyKpoTeîv, a word used by Philostratus to  describe the insertion of bronze (enameled or inlaid) pictorial panels, which in  the art of vaulting is used in the same sense as dppoCeiv. 175"[INPUT: Semper__Style_in_the_Technical_and_Tectonic_Arts_or_Practical_Aesthetics.pdf]

11. "Now the air is blue with words, a slow sizzle as of fish on the griddle” (CAP, 101). With the end of the music and the sexualized dance floor scene, the atmosphere returns to logic and language where the “air is blue with words,” which also permeate the air through an appetizing aural experience; edible words floating about. However, the passage carries on for another full page before returning to the narrator’s everyday reality, and in that page Miller attempts repeatedly to connect language to the erotic experience, referring, for example, to Laura’s lips in a double entendre: “Hunky-dory is the word on her lips."[Decker, James M., Indrek Manniste, and Louis A. Renza *Henry Miller: New Perspectives*. Bloomsbury Academic, 2015.]

12. "My discussion of this and other passages is also informed by Timon Screech’s unpublished translation of this text. Here, I have used both illustrator and artist to capture Sanba’s dual use of terms in the kanji and its furigana gloss; the kanji reads gakō (literally, “picture artisan”), a period term for illustrators, but is glossed in furigana as eshi (picture master) used often for acclaimed master painters. In addition, this subheading uses the term tsukushi, to “know all about” something (here, the names) and, as Kobayashi Tadashi has argued, indicates connoisseurial assessment; see “The Kanbun Bijin: Setting the Stage for Ukiyo-e Bijinga,” trans."[Davis, Julie Nelson *Partners in Print: Artistic Collaboration and the Ukiyo-e Market*. University of Hawaii Press, 2014.]

13. "Considered as a whole, the schematic nature of the frieze’s composition mirrors techniques used in mapmaking, the other print genre that also presented information in a similarly formulaic manner. Maps had a similar mandate to spatialize, organize, and schematize quantifiable material; travel accounts, given their symbiotic relationship with maps, borrowed similar conventions. By placing inhabitants in parceled and contiguous spatial coordinates, Burgkmair called on maps to certify his frieze as a space for the documentation of geographic knowledge."[(auth.), Stephanie Leitch *Mapping Ethnography in Early Modern Germany: New Worlds in Print Culture*. Palgrave Macmillan US, 2010.]

14. "Pfaffenberger 1983, 61). 4. See also Jasen (1993) for a review of Buzard’s book that picks up this issue. 5. Buzard presents a related concept when he speaks of travel writers who aimed at presenting an authenticity effect in their accounts. He then isolates four recurring motifs in their writing, namely stillness, non-utility, saturation and picturesqueness (cf. Buzard 1993, 177–87) through which they represent their sensitivities. These are interesting observations, and in part also of use for this book, yet they are, first of all, derived from looking at a small number of travel texts, primarily by male writers, and secondly, they concern the final products of their experiences, while I also set out to pinpoint the characteristics of the context and mindset that brought about these products."[Liedke, Heidi *The Experience of Idling in Victorian Travel Texts, 1850–1901*. Springer International Publishing;Palgrave Macmillan, 2018.]

15. "The inscrutable Chinese ideogram has led to a new scrutability, a new insight that remains Western and that becomes, thereafter, global. 26 Of course, Derrida also critiques the ethnocentrism that both elevates speech over writing and refuses to grant the dignity of writing to nonalphabetic signs. 27 By extension, people who practice tattoo create writing in a general sense (Grammatology, 109)—but a form of writing that may not always correspond to words in the direct way the viewer wishes."[Ellis, Juniper *Tattooing the World: Pacific Designs in Print and Skin*. Columbia University Press, 2008.]

16. "Colors were repeated among rooms, extending the color harmonies throughout the house. The writer also noted how the essential simplicity of the furniture forms contributed to a visual language that unified the house. Learning how Troost had deftly combined color and form to give the Führer his dream home undoubtedly evoked the reader’s admiration for her skills, while also reinforcing the complexity of interior decoration as an endeavor."[Stratigakos, Despina *Hitler at Home*. Yale University Press, 2015.]

17. "As regards the first, we find that Old Icelandic had a number of words-Gehllists ten-that meant something like 'honor', 'standing', 'esteem', 'respect', or 'reputation', with one or two of them shading into 'fame' (for which there were also another half-dozen or more words). 10 Most of the honor words, apart from drengskapr, are generally used in an external way, but there are instances of some of them being used also in an internal sense. I I The word drengskapr itself is almost always used to refer to a character trait, but there are also one or two occurrences where an external use seems to occur. P The two-sidedness of these words, which also appears in the fact that some occurrences are "equivocal,"l 3 is a good indication that they do sometimes refer to a right."[Stewart, Frank Henderson *Honor*. Chicago University Press, 2016.]

18. "When at an early date used clinging drapery to enhance the female did they begin to recognize In sculpture the earliest example seems its power of suggesting movement. ?to be B. C. From frieze of 136. Mausoleum The Mausoleum and in particular also provides an admirable of the means through which pose, or rhythmic accent, which In every culture certain I may it call the example of heroic energy, was so long expressed, that heroic diagonal. movements and gestures are recognized speaking a clear symbolic language, and are thus employed particularly the art of dancing."[Kenneth., Clark *The Nude. A Study in Ideal Form*. 2017.]

19. "In such cases often a short etymological explanation is added in order to make users aware of the fact. Note that this did not affect the placing of these characters within the CCD, as 爿 and 黑 are to be considered as radicals and 犬 as series header. It is also interesting to note that in standard Chinese dictionaries 爿 and 黑 also function as radicals in respect to these characters. d) two meaning elements In quite a number of cases neither part indicates the sound, but the character is a compound ideograph; in other words, it has two meaning elements."[Van Amstel, Adrian *Chinese Character Dictionary: A New Approach to Arranging, Explaining and Looking Up Chinese Characters*. Paperback. Createspace Independent Publishing Platform, 2016.]

20. "But Volosinov also rejected the Romantic position, arguing that the power of utterances to modify language stems from social interaction and its immediate conditions rather than the creativity of the individual. 48 The dialectical synthesis thus comes into view: the utterance can alter language because the utterance is inherently social. 49 This book attempts a similarly dialectical move. Those responsible for producing survey pictures did not encounter pictorial conventions as strict and precise prescriptions."[Kelsey, Robin *Archive style : photographs & illustrations for U.S. surveys, 1850-1890*. Berkeley, United States: University of California Press, 2007.]

21. "In contrast to English words which are linear and composed of letters representing sounds rather than meaning, each Sino-Japanese character is itself a concept or a full word. In this sense, the character has a visual meaning of its own, and the goal of shodo is to express that visual meaning in way that is both beautiful and significant and manifests the artist’s intent or state of mind. The first character, 書, means “to write,” “writing,” or “book,” and its roots are a stylus or brush over a nominative (or possibly over a mouth exhaling), indicating something written."[Wilson, William Scott *The Lone Samurai: The Life of Miyamoto Musashi*. Reprint. Shambhala, 2013.]

22. "Figure sculptures, of varying styles, are also well represented here, and a limited number of the huge ceremonial carvings, such as bisj poles and basu suangkus, have also been included. The cultural context in which these items play their part is described in detail in the introductory chapters. But it is not the intention of this book to be an ethnography. The focus is on the art pieces themselves. Chapter 1 offers an overview of the physical and cultural world of the Asmat."[Smidt, Dirk A. M. *Asmat Art: Woodcarvings of Southwest New Guinea*. Periplus Editions, 1999.]

23. "For Maya Deren: see Houstian 1997, photo on 48. Exile community: “Preface,” in Barnett and Helfenstein, eds. , 1997. 42 Cage explores a mind-expanding hallway— See Visual Music 2005, also Kandinsky’s On the Spiritual in Art. Also Meyer and Wasserman, eds. 2003, 24. 42 Seeing Cage’s joy and excitement— For Scheyer’s close friendship with the Arensbergs, who collected the Blue Four, see Houstian 1997, 44. Cage’s memory of this period: Retallack 1996, 88; also “John Cage in Los Angeles” 1965; also Sandback 1990."[Larson, Kay *Where the Heart Beats: John Cage, Zen Buddhism, and the Inner Life of Artists*. Reprint. Penguin Books, 2012.]

24. "They also satisfy the idea of perfection to the same extent  by displaying a full mastery of technique that is also aware of its limits and  that asks everything of a difficult material except what is foreign or contradictory to it. This mastery, in addition to its functionality, also seeks to emphasize the special properties of porcelain and to exploit formally all the benefits  that it offers. 64"[INPUT: Semper__Style_in_the_Technical_and_Tectonic_Arts_or_Practical_Aesthetics.pdf]

25. ". . written in the universal language. ”80 What Coudert seemed to ignore, however, was that the statue also kept much of the apocalyptic and violent meaning of Jesus’s original speech. It was an icon of violent change and revolution: that which had liberated Americans from British control, but also that of the oppressed against their oppressors everywhere in the world."[Viano, Francesca Lidia *Sentinel: The Unlikely Origins of the Statue of Liberty*. Harvard University Press, 2018.]