Created: 2025-11-12 14:35:12
Origin: searched
Selected: Many ﬁgures, including Mies van der Rohe or Rem Koolhaas, have consistently advocated that “architecture should be consistent with its contemporary language”. This implies that, in the “age of information”, architecture should reject the abstract forms and embrace the electronic iconography. For that reason, Venturi proclaims a kind of “renaissance” of the architecture and the death of the “sculpture” as architecture. Our research aims to include an additional parameter, arguing that the real challenge is to break the dichotomy between physical architecture and graphic architecture.[Marcos, Carlos L. *Graphic Imprints*. Springer International Publishing, 2019.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Many ﬁgures, including Mies van der Rohe or Rem Koolhaas, have consistently advocated that “architecture should be consistent with its contemporary language”. This implies that, in the “age of information”, architecture should reject the abstract forms and embrace the electronic iconography. For that reason, Venturi proclaims a kind of “renaissance” of the architecture and the death of the “sculpture” as architecture. Our research aims to include an additional parameter, arguing that the real challenge is to break the dichotomy between physical architecture and graphic architecture."[Marcos, Carlos L. *Graphic Imprints*. Springer International Publishing, 2019.]

02. "Think on the continued use of diagrams from Durand to Eisenman or the emergence of 2D computer drawing and the digital stratiﬁcation of information into layers and projects in strata such as Tschumi’s La Villette Park. Consider also the signiﬁcant change introduced by virtual modeling and the truly three-dimensional conception of architecture with blobs and folds—not a mere extruded space. Reflect on the development of scripting languages and parametric design, or on the topological notions applied to the concept of open form, algorithmic architecture and the natural counterpoint of digital manufacturing to enhance the materialization of this new digitally borne architecture: a brave new architecture addressing a new notion of materiality."[Marcos, Carlos L. *Graphic Imprints*. Springer International Publishing, 2019.]

03. "These representational explorations influence architecture, which today understands space and information from a topological standpoint. Mathematical topological surfaces informed the architectural envelope, inducing continuity between inside and outside, activating an apparently multi-dimensional space. Topology deals with self intersection which cannot be projected bi-dimensionally, but it does not imply a multi-dimensional system of representation."[Marcos, Carlos L. *Graphic Imprints*. Springer International Publishing, 2019.]

04. "p. cm. — (Writing architecture) Includes bibliographical references and index. ISBN 0-262-57149-8 (pbk. : alk. paper) 1. Architecture—Philosophy. 2. Space (Architecture)—Philosophy. I. Title. II. Series. NA2500 . G76 2001 720´. 1—dc21 2001018300 Acknowledgments vii Foreword by Peter Eisenman xi Introduction xv Part One Embodied Spaces one Embodying Space: An Interview two Lived Spatiality (The Spaces of Corporeal Desire) 31 Futures, Cities, Architecture 49 four Architecture from the Outside 57 ﬁve Cyberspace, Virtuality, and the Real: Some three 3 Part Two Transitional Spaces Architectural Reflections six 75 In-Between: The Natural in Architecture and Culture 91 Part Three Future Spaces seven The Future of Space: Toward an Architecture of Invention 109 eight Embodied Utopias: The Time of Architecture 131 nine Architectures of Excess 151 The Thing 167 ten Notes 185 Bibliography 207 Index 215 I am an outsider to the ﬁeld of architecture."[Grosz, Elizabeth *Architecture from the Outside: Essays on Virtual and Real Space (Writing Architecture)*. 2001.]

05. "This chapter examines the use of metaphor as a transformative methodology by which designers animate new body schema through imaginative projections that serve as the basis for the articulation of their projects. The architectural design process is presumed to be of great intellectual complexity. This it is, yet its source is in precognitive experience concerning which the metaphor enacts. Otherwise, the language of metaphor would not translate into design and built space. Contemporary building projects of a certain type and/or scale involve a myriad of professional specialists, with the architect in this process responsible for communicating to all expectations and intentions, coordinating work of the various disciplines, and assuring what is constructed meets predetermined standards."[(auth.), Gary Backhaus, Gary Backhaus, and John Murungi (eds.) *Symbolic Landscapes*. Springer Netherlands, 2009.]

06. "In so doing, I have found my type of writing analogous to my work on architecture, design, project and program development. [10] Zarefsky’s work has given me a structure to further describe the results of my research. It is yet another in my efforts to explicate architecture as the making of metaphors. This way of reasoning not only illuminates metaphor but articulates patterns by which metaphor is experienced. As “Argumentation: The Study of Effective Reasoning” defines how to build a case and support a resolution, so “Architecture: The Making of Metaphors” defines how to build design."[Fez-Barringten, Barie, and Edward Hart *Architecture: The Making of Metaphors*. Cambridge Scholars Publishing, 2012.]

07. "The Science Supporting the Stasis to Architecture Being an Art, 2009. j. Language of Metaphors Applied to Multidiscipline Architecture, 2009. k. Metaphor’s Interdisciplinary Axioms, 2009. l. Metaphoric Axioms for Micro Disciplinary Architecture, 2009. m. Complex Structure: Art and Architecture Stasis, 2009. n. Metaphor Axioms of Art, Architecture and Aesthetics, 2009. o. Aesthetic principles of metaphor, art and architecture 2009. p. The Six Principles of Art & Architecture’s Technical and Conceptual Metaphors, 2009. q. Metaphoric Evidence, 2009. r. Managing the Benefits and Risks of Architectural Artificial Intelligence, 2009. s. The Link Between AI and Architecture, 2009. t. Negotiate with Metaphoric Communication Tools, 2009. u."[Fez-Barringten, Barie, and Edward Hart *Architecture: The Making of Metaphors*. Cambridge Scholars Publishing, 2012.]

08. "New towns, malls, city centers, urban renewal, alternate use, and green building designs have already shifted design from limited building, site and project design to include theme, marketing, internet, lifestyle maintenance, health and well-being, recreation and entertainment and they already use an interdisciplinary vocabulary. The built environment is being synthesized and controlled by new professionals, design tools and evolving teams. Both architectural practice  Framing the Art vs. Architecture Argument  135 and use of its outcomes are incomplete because while it is a metaphor it is not known nor understood."[Fez-Barringten, Barie, and Edward Hart *Architecture: The Making of Metaphors*. Cambridge Scholars Publishing, 2012.]

09. "It requires perception } of thermal and luminous phenomenon that are not visible in the same sense as architectural space. Boundaries in the thermal or luminous environment are subtle and not sharply defined. 33 Whereas architecture as building emphasizes an iconic image—singularity and static fixity, the metaphors of architecture as organism and architecture as furnishing a larger room suggest a dynamic, open, less formal and more fluid style. By demanding recognition of something beyond the work itself these metaphors critically promote the architectural function as the intertwining of making and world producing the spatial potentiality for the intertwining of (human) organisms and environment."[(auth.), Gary Backhaus, Gary Backhaus, and John Murungi (eds.) *Symbolic Landscapes*. Springer Netherlands, 2009.]

10. "LUDGER HOVESTADT is professor for Computer Aided Architectural Design at the Institute  for Information Technology in Architecture ITA at the Swiss Federal Institute for Technology  (ETH) Zurich. He leads an interdisciplinary team of researchers who understand themselves as  technology scouts for architecture. His core interest is in the design of infrastructures, which he  defines from an application perspective according to the possibility spaces they are able to provide.  He has founded several spin-offs in the fields of digital fabrication, building information models,  and building automation. His recent publications include : Beyond the Grid. Architecture and  Information Technology. Applications of a Digital Architectonic. Birkhäuser Basel / Boston 2009. "[INPUT: Bühlmann and Hovestadt - 2013 - Applied Virtuality Book Series Printed Physics — M.pdf]

11. "In short, can architecture be thought, in connection with other series, as assemblage?What would this entail?What are the implications of opening up architectural discourses to Deleuzian desire-as-production?Can architecture work (its or an) outside?What is it to open up architecture to thought, to force, to life, to the outside?By outside I do not mean the practical, ﬁnancial, and aesthetic exigencies of building design and construction, nor even the demands on architecture to align with the environment, a landscape, interior design, interior or exterior artworks, which in a certain sense are all “inside” architecture and its history, part of the necessary structure of compromise that produces a building as a commodity."[Grosz, Elizabeth *Architecture from the Outside: Essays on Virtual and Real Space (Writing Architecture)*. 2001.]

12. " Writing Architecture series Architecture from the Outside Essays on Virtual and Real Space by ord forew Elizabeth Grosz Peter Eisenman Architecture from the Outside Writing Architecture Series A project of the Anyone Corporation Earth Moves: The Furnishing of Territories Bernard Cache, 1995 Architecture as Metaphor: Language, Number, Money Kojin Karatani, 1995 Differences: Topographies of Contemporary Architecture Ignasi de Solà-Morales, 1996 Constructions John Rajchman, 1997 Such Places as Memory John Hejduk, 1998 Welcome to The Hotel Architecture Roger Connah, 1998 A Landscape of Events Paul Virilio, 2000 Fire and Memory: On Architecture and Energy Luis Fernández-Galiano, 2000 Architecture from the Outside: Essays on Virtual and Real Space Elizabeth Grosz, 2001 The MIT Press Cambridge, Massachusetts London, England Architecture from the Outside Essays on Virtual and Real Space y ord b forew Elizabeth Grosz Peter Eisenman © 2001 Massachusetts Institute of Technology All rights reserved."[Grosz, Elizabeth *Architecture from the Outside: Essays on Virtual and Real Space (Writing Architecture)*. 2001.]

13. "Srygley interprets the main street-like development as presenting an allegory that critiques both the suburban landscape that it extols and the urban landscape that it shuns. It presents this allegory through the architectural oxymoron of a private public space. Nevertheless, due to an urban, historical amnesia, whereby people no longer understand what quality urban space is about, this allegorical critique is not experienced, rather, the ersatz main street makes for a “successful” con. It is precisely the absence of a veritable embodied urban experience that allows for a cheap imitation “to work. ” In chapter eight, “Metaphor, Environmental Receptivity, and Architectural Design,” Brook Muller discusses the important role of metaphor in architectural design."[(auth.), Gary Backhaus, Gary Backhaus, and John Murungi (eds.) *Symbolic Landscapes*. Springer Netherlands, 2009.]

14. "The exterior is perhaps a little too extravagant. The inside is a building with its very own character, the result of a combination of tradition, contemporary construction techniques and architectural ingenuity. ’60 These critiques brought the concepts of ‘typology,’ ‘contemporaneity’ and ‘design task,’ – common usage in the world of architectural education and applied in design and evaluation – into the world of Islamic architecture in the Netherlands. This meant that there was no room for the design process as an ongoing series of intensive negotiations between an architect and his influential commissioner."[Mekking, Aart J.J., and Eric Roose *The Global Built Environment as a Representation of Realities: Why and How Architecture Should Be the Subject of Worldwide Comparison*. 2009.]

15. "He writes on the cultural history and aesthetics of architecture. His work has appeared in Assemblage, Architectural Research Quarterly, The Journal of Architecture, Architectural Theory Review and OASE. His book The Picturesque: xxii SEEING FROM ABOVE Architecture, Disgust and other Irregularities was published by Routledge in 2007. He is currently working on projects on the twentieth-century reception of Baroque architecture, on criticism and aesthetics, and on the architecture of Queensland, Australia."[Dorrian, Mark, and Frédéric Poussin (eds.) *Seeing from Above: The Aerial View in Visual Culture*. I.B.Tauris, 2013.]