Created: 2025-11-25 01:20:39
Origin: searched
Selected: A warm, slightly bruised and tender feeling reminded her of the night before, the secret hours in Sean’s arms before Red had brought the children back. Though their time was limited, she had been well and thoroughly loved, and memories pulsed through her, touching off signal fires in hidden places. Last night had been a revelation. A dream. An ecstasy that was softer and sweeter than a dozen Devil Dogs. Sean Maguire, she thought, letting his name drift through her mind like an unforgettable song. Sean Maguire.[Wiggs, Susan *Table for Five*. Mira, 2006.]

--- Context List ---
01. "A warm, slightly bruised and tender feeling reminded her of the night before, the secret hours in Sean’s arms before Red had brought the children back. Though their time was limited, she had been well and thoroughly loved, and memories pulsed through her, touching off signal fires in hidden places. Last night had been a revelation. A dream. An ecstasy that was softer and sweeter than a dozen Devil Dogs. Sean Maguire, she thought, letting his name drift through her mind like an unforgettable song. Sean Maguire."[Wiggs, Susan *Table for Five*. Mira, 2006.]

02. "They lay in the sunshine filtering through the open curtains for a long time afterward, a tangle of limbs and shed clothes. The window let in the warm morning air, the acrid smell of smoke and crushed eucalyptus. Charlie’s fingers idly moved in patterns around Beattie’s left shoulder as she listened to the thump of his heart under his hard chest. “I need to tell you something, Beattie,” he said, his voice gruff from lack of sleep and smoke. “Go on,” she said. “I’ve been in love with you a long time. ” She smiled, though he couldn’t see her face."[Freeman, Kimberley *Wildflower Hill*. Reprint. Touchstone, 2011.]

03. "Every time I closed my eyes—every time I blinked—I saw magic. Light of varying intensity dotting the darkness. Each time my eyes closed, the magic world of light had gotten bigger, stretched further. I was afraid it wasn’t going to go away. I was afraid of what it meant. I hadn’t been able to sleep last night and didn’t know if I’d ever be able to sleep again. Most of all, I hated barely seeing Jay-Tee. Tom’s light was strong and clear; Esmeralda’s was dazzling, but Jay-Tee’s was a smudge, fainter than the Milky Way."[Larbalestier, Justine *Magic's Child*. Razorbill, 2008.]

04. "I poured myself some brandy and stretched out on the sofa bed, going over the day's events from morning to night. It felt like an awfully long day. The room continued to glow white in the moonlight. Aside from the occasional slight creak of a bed, hardly a sound came from the bedroom where Naoko and Reiko lay sleeping. Tiny diagrammatic shapes seemed to float in the darkness when I closed my eyes, and my ears sensed the lingering reverberation of Reiko's guitar, but neither of these lasted for long."[Murakami, Haruki *Norwegian Wood*. Vintage, 2000.]

05. "Remember, he didn’t say no. That’s a good sign. Now go outside to get some fresh air and go to bed. You need to rest. ” I went outside and looked up at the stars. I felt a pain in my chest. That night I did not sleep and neither did Mamá. I heard her murmuring prayers for a long time. On Friday morning I had a hard time getting out of bed. I felt tired and depressed. I skipped breakfast and went to work in a daze. The clicking noise of telegraph machines at the Western Union seemed distant. I went from class to class, not paying attention to anything that was said or discussed."[Jimenez, Francisco *Breaking Through*. Houghton Mifflin Books for Children, 2001.]

06. "I would be staying in a five-star hotel in a country I’d never been to before. I started to fantasise about the trip. All the work stuff would happen during the day, leaving my evenings free. I could have long, hot baths and lovely room service dinners that I wouldn’t have to cook myself. I could go to bed at nine thirty and sleep until seven the next morning—that was the most alluring prospect of all. I’d assumed, without even realising it, that my relationship with proper sleep was over for good."[Hannah, Sophie *The Wrong Mother*. Original. Penguin USA, Inc., 2008.]

07. "It had been all I could do to suppress the intense desire I had to strip her naked, throw open her body, and sink myself in her warmth. There was no way I could have made myself stop her once she was holding my penis and moving her hand. I wanted her to do it, she wanted to do it, and we were in love. Who could have stopped such a thing?It was true: I loved Midori. And I had probably known as much for a while. I had just been avoiding the conclusion for a very long time. The problem was that I could never explain these developments to Naoko."[Murakami, Haruki *Norwegian Wood*. Vintage, 2000.]

08. "On their marriage night I spent the night on the cliff over Lake Otsego, thinking of my poor girl. Stared at the water until the old white monster came to the surface. Watched it turn its belly to the night sky, I saw it become a great moon on top of the lake, watched until it went down again. The ﬁrst time Noname came into town, a married girl, a woman with child, she struck everything still. So beautiful. More beautiful even than that Rosamond Phinney, with all her roses in her cheeks. The horses stopped walking, feet still in the air."[Groff, Lauren *The Monsters of Templeton*. Hyperion, 2008.]

09. "I shall not leave you here alone in the dark, however much I long to creep up to the light. "So they nestled close together in the box—these two little bulbs. And the next day the lily said, "Now, try again, little plant brother; stretch your very best—maybe you can push through the earth, while I wait. "So again the tulip tried—tried his very best, but his delicate hand touched the same hard thing, which he could not push away. And then the dear little tulip baby could not help but cry, he was so very anxious to see the light."[Bigham, Madge A. *Little Folks' Land*. Yesterday's Classics, 2009.]

10. "This was how quarrels usually began, and I stopped. When it had mattered to me I was never able to stop. “Did you ever eat by candlelight before?” she asked. “It’s such a lovely light. ” “No,” I lied instantly. “The candles are here since the last blackout. ” “They certainly look it,” everything was running easily again. The candles hadn’t been used since She and I were here before going into the country, the last night we spent here together. The pain of that night still wavered in their flames, but wearily."[McGahern, John *The Pornographer*. Faber & Faber, 2009.]

11. "“Bridie was delighted to see us. It broke up the night for ner. Often you’d long for an emergency at night though it’d mean more work. The night goes quicker then. You should have come into the office. The office is soundproof and Bridie wanted to meet you. ” “I was afraid. ” “You never thought you’d be coming in to see your aunt in the middle of the night, did you?” she laughed roguishly and I seized her in a long kiss, her body almost completely naked beneath the dress. When I released her she picked up two big fistfuls of hay and putting them up to her face pretended to be advancing slowly on me from behind a barrier of hay."[McGahern, John *The Pornographer*. Faber & Faber, 2009.]

12. "It was easy to tell her room. All I had to do was find the one window towards the back where a faint light trembled. I focused on that point of light for a long, long time. It made me think of something like the final pulse of a soul's dying embers. I wanted to cup my hands over what was left and keep it alive. I went on watching it the way Jay Gatsby watched that tiny light on the opposite shore night after night. When I walked back to the front entrance of the building half an hour later, I could hear Reiko practising the guitar."[Murakami, Haruki *Norwegian Wood*. Vintage, 2000.]

13. "I shouldn’t sleep now if I went to bed, full as I am. I’d just lie and toss about all night. ""You were up late last night?"he asked. She nodded. "And the night before. ""I’d say you might try going to bed early, once in a while. ’’ "What’s the use?"she demanded. "What’s the use of anything now?"He did not try to answer that, and presently she asked, "Why is Peter joining you in Scorpion, Dwight?""He’s our new liaison officer," he told her. "Did you have one before him?"He shook his head."[Shute, Nevil *On the Beach*. Lightyear Pr, 1998.]

14. "III i I stayed up through the night writing Galilee's confession. It was in some ways the happiest of labors: I was finally able to unburden myself of portions of this story I've waited a long time to set down; and it was pleasing to interleave my voice with Galilee's in the telling. But it was also the first of many acts of closure that the next few days will bring, and toward the end of the night a distinct sense of melancholy crept upon me."[Barker, Clive *Galilee*. 1998.]

15. "“No doubt about it. This is the man I saw last night. ” 7 I flinched in surprise when a nearby door was flung open. “There you are!” said Jeff with false brightness. I could tell he was annoyed that I had spent so long on the phone. He’d probably been stalling, trying to convince his boss I was reliable while simultaneously wondering why I hadn’t come upstairs yet. “Did you get lost?” Max said quietly to me, “I’ll wait here. ” I took one more look at Darius Phelps’ photograph, noting that he had been a handsome man in life—something that hadn’t been so readily apparent last night, when he was three weeks dead and physically maimed."[Resnick, Laura *Unsympathetic Magic*. Penguin Group USA, 2010.]