Created: 2025-12-23 02:54:59
Origin: searched
Selected: Finally, in Plato there is yet another element that is a necessary supplement to the deficiency in both the great forces. This is the mythical and the metaphorical. The first kind of dialectic corresponds to the first kind of irony, the second kind of dialectic to the second kind of irony; to the first two corresponds the mythical, to the last two the metaphorical-yet in such a way that the mythical is not indispensably related to either the first two or the last two but is more like an anticipation engendered by the one-sidedness of the first two or like a transitional element, a confinium [border territory], that actually belongs neither to the one nor to the other.[Kierkegaard, Søren, Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph von Schelling, Socrates., Edna Hatlestad Hong, Søren Kierkegaard, and Howard Vincent Hong *The concept of irony, with continual reference to Socrates : together with notes of Schelling's Berlin lectures*. Princeton, N.J: Princeton University Press, 1989.]

--- Context List ---
01. "S S X A !X A S 1 1 S X A !2 2 S X A !1 2 1 2 S X X A A !S X A !T A B !ST X B !S X A !1 S A X -!S W T !W T S W S ( ) E W ( ) E W V W S V W ( ) = ( ) E W E V 44 45 CIRCULATION: ENCODING-PARTITIONING-DECODING NATURAL COMMUNICATION 37        It is important to point out that a metaphora involving two hypostatic  levels pre-supposes implicitly that these two levels can be in principle  differentiated. Of course, this is only possible in terms of the inversely  pointing bridges   and  . Concomitantly, two processes   and  , which are equivalent under  , i. e."[INPUT: Zafiris - 2021 - Natural Communication The Obstacle-Embracing Art .pdf]

02. "Finally, in Plato there is yet another element that is a necessary supplement to the deficiency in both the great forces. This is the mythical and the metaphorical. The first kind of dialectic corresponds to the first kind of irony, the second kind of dialectic to the second kind of irony; to the first two corresponds the mythical, to the last two the metaphorical-yet in such a way that the mythical is not indispensably related to either the first two or the last two but is more like an anticipation engendered by the one-sidedness of the first two or like a transitional element, a confinium [border territory], that actually belongs neither to the one nor to the other."[Kierkegaard, Søren, Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph von Schelling, Socrates., Edna Hatlestad Hong, Søren Kierkegaard, and Howard Vincent Hong *The concept of irony, with continual reference to Socrates : together with notes of Schelling's Berlin lectures*. Princeton, N.J: Princeton University Press, 1989.]

03. "Part C of Fig. 1 shows an expanded display using two lines per stem. Emerson and Hoaglin [1, p. 11] recommend the value L = 10 log10 n for the total number of lines in a stem-and-leaf display of n values. Comparing samples from two populations can be done effectively using a back-to-back stem-and-leaf display, where both samples share the same set of stems, and the leaves from the two samples are placed on either side. Figure 2 illustrates such a comparison for two sets of measurements obtained on two standard cells at the National Bureau of Standards in March 1979."[Read, Campbell B., N. Balakrishnan, Brani Vidakovic, and Samuel Kotz *Encyclopedia of Statistical Sciences*. 2nd. Wiley-Interscience, 2005.]

04. "An example of the latter approach is the method of successive subdivisions [13]. The real line is first divided into two equally likely regions by assessing the median, each of the two regions is divided into two equally likely subregions by assessing the first and third quartiles, and so on. One advantage of this approach is that it requires only even-odds judgments, which are easier to think about than judgments involving uneven odds."[Read, Campbell B., N. Balakrishnan, Brani Vidakovic, and Samuel Kotz *Encyclopedia of Statistical Sciences*. 2nd. Wiley-Interscience, 2005.]

05. "The same principle is most useful in memorizing a speech verbatim; the first  phrase is read off first, then the first and second together, then the first, second, and  third, etc. This device is also used in some girls' games. It is remarkable how easily the  whole is memorized on this basis. The stern reader will forgive me for using these  trifling examples, if trifles help us to be more skilful in serious instruction."[INPUT: Leibniz - 1976 - Philosophical Papers and Letters.pdf]

06. "In his soul, every spectator is a speculator. White face and black face, prodigality and greedy cupidity: two expressions of a single affect never ceasing to exchange, mirrorlike, the two images that constitute it and the two uses that institute it."[Alliez, Eric *Capital Times: Tales from the Conquest of Time (Theory Out of Bounds)*. University of Minnesota Press, 1996.]

07. "The ﬁrst two, (a) and (b), are plotted in two dimensions and use implicit representations of the third. In the case of the density plot (a), the third dimension is represented by shading or colour. A contour plot (b) uses isopleths for this purpose."[Matthiopoulos(auth.), Jason *How to be a Quantitative Ecologist: The ‘A to R’ of Green Mathematics and Statistics*. 2011.]

08. "Two attempts were made to reconcile these different approaches."[Collinson, Diane, Kathryn Plant, and Robert Wilkinson *Fifty Eastern thinkers*. London; New York: Routledge, 2000.]

09. "The ﬁrst applies the additive composition with constant weights. In the second, is employed again a capacity built by assuming additivity and equal importance, but treating as mutually interchangeable the two educational indicators. In the third, this second capacity is modiﬁed, becoming interchangeable not only the two educational components but also the two indicators of longevity and income. Assuming equal importance for each of these two sets of two elements, numerically the capacity is formed by each set with one element of each pair of interchangeable components having a value of 1, while the unitary sets as well as the sets of two elements of the same interchangeable pair have the value of 1/2."[(auth.), Annibal Parracho Sant'Anna *Probabilistic Composition of Preferences, Theory and Applications*. Springer International Publishing, 2015.]

10. "The simulation [6] suggests that, when compared with greedy matching, optimal matching may at times produce a noticeably smaller total distance within matched sets, but it does not produce greater covariate balance. Table 2 is a small numerical example contrasting greedy and optimal matching, showing that optimal matching can at times be much better. The example has two treated subjects {a, b} and two controls {c, d}. Greedy picks the best match first, namely (a, c), and then is forced to pair b with d, resulting in an average distance within pairs of (0 + 100)/2 = 50."[Read, Campbell B., N. Balakrishnan, Brani Vidakovic, and Samuel Kotz *Encyclopedia of Statistical Sciences*. 2nd. Wiley-Interscience, 2005.]

11. "finds in the latter symbol an expression of the relation of the elements, as in the former an image of the combination of two surfaces. Between fire and earth, the two extremes, he remarks that there are introduced, not one, but two elements, air and water, which are compared to the two mean proportionals between two cube numbers. The vagueness of his language does not allow us to determine whether anything more than this was intended by him. Between the ideal and the sensible Plato interposes the two natures of time and space."[INPUT: Plato__Timaeus.pdf]

12. "Two windows are associated to each edge site as shown in figure 3. xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx Figure 3: Position of the windows used for the edge detection in both cases: vertical and horizontal edge elments. The size of these windows may depend on the presence of macro-textures, the algorithm allows the use of two window sizes, one for micro-textures and an other one for macro-textures (for the first experiment, only one resolution of 7 pixels, and for the second experiment two resolutions of 5 and 11 pixels)."[Abdalla, Mona, Jim Kay (auth.), Piero Barone, Arnoldo Frigessi, and Mauro Piccioni (eds.) *Stochastic Models, Statistical Methods, and Algorithms in Image Analysis: Proceedings of the Special Year on Image Analysis, held in Rome, Italy, 1990*. Springer-Verlag New York, 1992.]

13. "The second, more complex method augmented these two flat drawings with several other projections that made it possible to generate the irregularly curved shapes of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, called "baroque"; for reasons that will be explained below, such shapes were never again truly equaled until the recent advent of forms spawned by the generative power of computer software. These two systems of representation relate to two distinct modes of architectural design, whose opposition explains the old conflict between "classic" and "baroque" even as it sheds light on the current polemic surrounding the emergence of undulating forms typical of certain architectural styles that mock the rigorous heritage of the modernist movement."[Carpo, Mario, and Frederique Lemerle-Pauwels *Perspective, Projections and Design: Technologies of Architectural Representation*. Hardcover. Routledge, 2007.]

14. "After 2000 sweeps using the nonlinear factor analysis model, the sources were rotated with FastICA, and each source was modeled with a mixture of three gaussian distributions. The learning process was then continued using this refined model for 5500 more sweeps. The resulting sources are shown in Fig. 17. 12. Figure 17. 13 shows 30 subimages, each corresponding to a specific measurement made from the process. The original measurement appears as the upper time series in each subimage, and the lower time series is the reconstruction of this measurement given by the network."[Hyvärinen, Aapo, Juha Karhunen, and Erkki Oja *Independent Component Analysis*. New York: J. Wiley, 2001.]

15. "It is vain to add the same real more than once. When  two and two are said to make four, the latter two must be diverse from the former two. If they were the same, they would produce nothing new. This would be like trying, in  jest, to make six eggs out of three, by counting first the three eggs, then taking away  one and counting the remaining two, and again taking away one and counting the  remaining one. But in the calculus of numbers and magnitudes, A or B or any other  signs do not signify a definite thing, but any cases whatever of the same number of  congruent parts; for any two feet whatever are signified by 2 if the foot is the unit of  measure."[INPUT: Leibniz - 1976 - Philosophical Papers and Letters.pdf]