Created: 2025-11-02 01:28:23
Origin: searched
Selected: In practice these work tasks do not follow sequentially; more often than not we can talk about a pendulum process. Moreover, the purpose will decide how rigid a framework it is convenient to outline in an early stage of the proj- INTRODUCTION 9 ect. In this chapter I therefore distinguish between design processes with a structured framework and those with multiple, flexible, or open frameworks. The presentation of the design process makes up the conclusion of this book. From this point on, books on research methods and methodological rules will have to be consulted to ensure a sound implementation of the entire research project.[Designing Social Science Research, Oddbjørn Bukve, 2018]

--- Context List ---
01. "In practice these work tasks do not follow sequentially; more often than not we can talk about a pendulum process. Moreover, the purpose will decide how rigid a framework it is convenient to outline in an early stage of the proj- INTRODUCTION 9 ect. In this chapter I therefore distinguish between design processes with a structured framework and those with multiple, flexible, or open frameworks. The presentation of the design process makes up the conclusion of this book. From this point on, books on research methods and methodological rules will have to be consulted to ensure a sound implementation of the entire research project."[Designing Social Science Research, Oddbjørn Bukve, 2018]

02. "Chapter 10 looks more closely at intervention-oriented designs where research strategies are combined in order to study intervention processes and effects of an intervention. The defining characteristic of such designs is their practical purpose. The final chapter, Chap. 11, deals with the design process. I describe the design process as a process in which the task is to develop and stitch together the different elements or work tasks of the design."[Designing Social Science Research, Oddbjørn Bukve, 2018]

03. " AICR[v. 20020404] Prn:23/02/2006; 11:23 F: DDCS708. tex / p. 4 (172)  Kirstie Edwards et al. Writing research has evolved from being focused primarily on the text in early models into gradually incorporating increasingly complex perspectives, with the writing process recognized as a social and communicative act. Partly, the concern in modeling writing appears to be identifying the influences on the process and partly, identifying the process itself."[Information And Document Design: Varieties on Recent Research (Document Design Companion Series), Information Design Conference, Saul Carliner, Jan Piet Verkens, Cathy De Waele, 2006]

04. "The research reported here was further shaped by additional peer review and editorial guidance. Although the methods vary widely from chapter to chapter, to ensure complete disclosure, each author uses the same format for reporting the research and provides information on the same aspects of the research. This similarity among reports allows researchers from different backgrounds to more effectively understand the work of colleagues working with different types of research methods. In the process of doing so, my co-authors and I hope that this book establishes new standards for reporting research on information design and document design."[Information And Document Design: Varieties on Recent Research (Document Design Companion Series), Information Design Conference, Saul Carliner, Jan Piet Verkens, Cathy De Waele, 2006]

05. "Or we can try to develop hypotheses about what are the main drivers behind the emergence of the phenomenon and how it develops. The difference between process analyses for theory development on the one hand and theory-informed or explaining-outcome process tracing on the other is the ambition to build theory. Systematic theory- CASE DESIGNS 133 building studies will establish stringent and testable hypotheses about causal mechanisms, whereas explaining-outcome process tracing may utilise various types of explanations that the researcher finds relevant (Beach & Pedersen, 2014)."[Designing Social Science Research, Oddbjørn Bukve, 2018]

06. "I then introduce comparative designs, pointing to the characteristic feature of DESIGN OF RESEARCH PROJECTS 95 comparative designs in that they combine strategies for analysing individual cases with strategies for comparing the cases. Finally, I introduce intervention-oriented designs that combine process and effect analyses, discussing designs for evaluation and action research and how to develop intervention-relevant knowledge."[Designing Social Science Research, Oddbjørn Bukve, 2018]

07. "‘Design’ means putting emphasis on process – not on information products and their characteristics. Though the information design process may be mapped somewhat differently (Boag Associates 2003; MacDonald-Ross & AICR[v. 20020404] Prn:23/02/2006; 11:23 F: DDCS708. tex / p. 2 (170)  Kirstie Edwards et al. Waller 2000; Pettersson 2002; Redish 2000; Sless 2000), it is usually seen as a creative iterative effort, which is problem- and user-centered. It starts with a careful analysis of the communication problem before a solution is identified and implemented; evaluation (or testing) is seen as key to the success of the process."[Information And Document Design: Varieties on Recent Research (Document Design Companion Series), Information Design Conference, Saul Carliner, Jan Piet Verkens, Cathy De Waele, 2006]

08. "Much of the early work was performed at the American Institutes for Research (AIR) Document Design Center (DDC), which produced the groundbreaking ‘Guidelines for Document Designers’ in 1981 (Felker, Pickering, Charow, Holland, & Redish 1981). Other ground breaking work in research and theory includes work conducted by researchers working in English composition, such as Linda Flower’s research on the composition process (1989); work by researchers in technical communication, such as Schriver’s 1997 ‘Dynamics of Document Design’, which summarized and synthesized developments in the field to that date, and work by people in rhetoric, such as the application of genre theory to practical communication (Berkenkotter & Huckin 1995)."[Information And Document Design: Varieties on Recent Research (Document Design Companion Series), Information Design Conference, Saul Carliner, Jan Piet Verkens, Cathy De Waele, 2006]

09. "The background section concludes with the research questions. Literature review Before proceeding, the researcher should situate the research within the larger framework of research already conducted on this area, and suggest how this study would contributes overall to the literature on information design and document design. Research methodology This is the heart of the report, in which researchers explain how they chose to answer their research question. Specifically, the following information should be reported: • Explanation of methodology."[Information And Document Design: Varieties on Recent Research (Document Design Companion Series), Information Design Conference, Saul Carliner, Jan Piet Verkens, Cathy De Waele, 2006]

10. "In fact, if communication is ultimately a problem-solving discipline (Flower 1989), then the field needs more contextualized research. The need for such research is already being identified by some researchers, who are questioning earlier document design research. Some questions pertain to methodological issues with the previous research. Some question whether results of research with texts that are decontextualized from an everyday use and primarily performed with a heterogeneous group of university undergraduates in the US can be generalized to other populations (Boswood & Carliner in preparation; Thalheimer 2005)."[Information And Document Design: Varieties on Recent Research (Document Design Companion Series), Information Design Conference, Saul Carliner, Jan Piet Verkens, Cathy De Waele, 2006]