Created: 2025-12-27 22:45:07
Origin: suggested
Selected: Illustration on the topic digital city would lure many illustrators to some sci-fi vision of the city of the future, variations on the Orwellian, or virtual reality. Ilić however is moving in the reverse direction. Instead of the futuristic vision of the city wired with digital communications systems, he sees the city and structure of streets, and turns it into a picture of a typical American city, with a bank and a hospital, park, and monuments.[Kršić, Dejan *Mirko Ilic: Fist to Face*. Print, 2012.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Cities hâve often been likened to symphonies and poems, and the comparison seems to me a perfècdy natural one: they are, in fàct, objects of the same kind. The city may even be rated higher, since it stands at the point where Nature and artifice meet. A city is a congrégation of animais whose biological history is enclosed within its boundaries; and yet every conscious and rational act on the part of thèse créatures helps to shape the city's eventual character. By its form, as by the manner of its birth, the city has éléments at once of biological procréation, organic évolution, and aesthetic création."[Levi-Strauss, Claude *Tristes Tropiques*. Atheneum, 1961.]

02. "Illustration on the topic digital city would lure many illustrators to some sci-fi vision of the city of the future, variations on the Orwellian, or virtual reality. Ilić however is moving in the reverse direction. Instead of the futuristic vision of the city wired with digital communications systems, he sees the city and structure of streets, and turns it into a picture of a typical American city, with a bank and a hospital, park, and monuments."[Kršić, Dejan *Mirko Ilic: Fist to Face*. Print, 2012.]

03. "Traitor- TECHNOLOGY COMMON ARTIFACTS The entire city is lit by Essence lamps, and every dwelling has fully functional plumbing and water systems, as well as environmental control mechanisms that keep the occupants comfortable even on the cold ocean floor. The city’s internal communications network still functions, allowing individuals across the length and breadth of the city to communicate freely, as well as permitting the Cult of Leviathan to spy freely on the Luthan people."[Alexander, Alan, Eric Brennan, Genevieve Cogman, Conrad Hubbard, and Peter Schaefer *Compass of Terrestrial Directions, Vol.2: The West (Exalted RPG)*. 2007.]

04. "(Italy’s delayed industrialization was in part due to its lack of coal, a disadvantage the advent of electric power promised to redress. )Indeed, the New City drawings present a utopian image of urban dwelling. Realized with machinelike precision, Sant’Elia’s skyscrapers refuse historicist ornament, instead massing to emphasize soaring height, clarity of structure, and dynamic movement (Fig."[Poggi, Christine, Lawrence S. Rainey, and Laura Wittman *Futurism : an anthology*. New Haven: Yale University Press, 2009.]

05. "Despite plans for democratic community and architectural beauty, the rapid growth of eastern urban centers often left their denizens feeling oppressed by industrial smoke and muddy streets, and anonymous among the swarming crowds. For many, nature not only offered a retreat from the harsh realities of city life but also a place to reimagine its uncorrupted possibility. Assigning these images to the canyon’s landscape, writers simultaneously preserved the ideal of God’s city in America and bore witness to their own idealized inner landscape."[Neumann, Mark, and Neumann Mark *On the Rim: Looking for the Grand Canyon*. Univ Of Minnesota Press, 1999.]

06. "But dividing the design into tidy quarters is not the only way the Romans urbanized the labyrinth. Surrounding just about every mosaic labyrinth is a mosaic representation of city walls complete with crenellations, watchtowers and fortified city gates. While the labyrinth itself is usually rendered without any attempt to imply depth or a third dimension, the protective walls are often—with dramatic effect—designed with a suggestion of perspective. Fortified walls play no part in the Cretan myth, but they are the defining image in the story of Troy with its “topless towers,” and as Virgil explains in The Aeneid, plowing a “boundary furrow” to mark the future location of the protective walls is one of the first ceremonial steps in the founding of the city."[McCullough, David Willis *The unending mystery : a journey through labyrinths and mazes*. New York: Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group;Pantheon, 2004.]

07. "Some films can capture a shift in architectural mood even before architects are aware of it. Bladerunner really did detonate an interest in dystopia, and an exploration of the city of the future as messy and dark with machines dripping steam, and backstreet DNA analysts. It became the subject of seminars and conferences at architecture schools around the world. Others, such as Antony Minghella’s Breaking and Entering, manage to convey something of the essential nature of city life, in the way that a city is multilayered, an environment in which very different groups of people exist side by side in the same space but hardly acknowledge each other’s existence."[Sudjic, Deyan *B is for Bauhaus, Y is for YouTube: Designing the Modern World from A to Z*. Rizzoli Ex Libris, 2015.]

08. "In the city, precipitation is funneled into sewers, effectively eliminating much of its cooling effect. The relative lack of this evaporation in the city explains why cities tend to be less humid than rural areas. It is commonly assumed that air pollution is what makes cities warmer. Since dust particles can absorb radiation, the theory goes, the more polluted the city, the higher the temperature is artificially raised. There is only one problem with this hypothesis: Dust particles can also reflect radiation, bouncing rays that would otherwise be trapped near ground level back up to the sky."[Feldman, David *Imponderables The Solution To  the Mysteries of Everyday Life*. 1986.]

09. "Walking is only the beginning of citizenship, but through it the citizen knows his or her city and fellow citizens and truly inhabits the city rather than a small privatized part thereof. Walking the streets is what links up reading the map with living one’s life, the personal microcosm with the public macrocosm; it makes sense of the maze all around. In her celebrated Death and Life of Great American Cities, Jane Jacobs describes how a popular, well-used street is kept safe from crime merely by the many people going by."[Solnit, Rebecca *Wanderlust: A History of Walking*. Penguin Books, 2001.]

10. "The flows in railroad stations, markets, and subways the life which moves against the background of very spontaneity of the pencil makes interpret no less fascinating fine architecture. the ideal ebbs and medium than And the to record and it all. Discovering a Because it is life that I city^s character was raised in a city, I draw city life with intense emotional involvement. Different elements of this emotional involvement draw."[Hogarth, Paul *Creative Pencil Drawing*. Watson-Guptill Publications, 1981.]

11. "The City Beautiful ideal, which served as the basis of architects Thomas R. Kimball and C. Howard Walker’s plan of the exposition, broke with the rigid practicality of the grid. Its grand classicized public spaces, marked with allegorical sculpture, were intended to promote civic virtue and a modern utopian city of order, honesty, and cleanliness. Indeed, one of the features of their plan was to connect exhibition buildings with colonnades and trees that screened out the actual city beyond."[KATZ, WENDY JEAN *The Trans-Mississippi and International Expositions of 1898–1899: Art, Anthropology, and Popular Culture at the Fin de Siècle*. Hardcover. University of Nebraska Press, 2018.]

12. "Le Corbusier’s contact with Baker did not enable him to build the Radiant City; instead, it unravels his manifestoes of freedom and home. The vision of a Radiant City (of an architecture whose pristine brightness then can accommodate the heterogeneity of modern life) is haunted by the remembrance of alternative spaces. Le Corbusier’s plans for the Radiant City were never fulﬁlled except as diffused and corrupted concepts that end up exacerbating the very urban plights it was meant to assuage."[Cheng, Anne Anlin *Second Skin: Josephine Baker & the Modern Surface*. Oxford University Press, 2011.]

13. "Their efforts and inclinations echo a dialectic of place and time rendered in Italo Calvino’s Invisible Cities : “The city is redundant: it repeats itself so that something will stick in the mind. Memory is redundant: it repeats signs so that the city can begin to exist. ”8 To some extent, these visitors suggest how the practice of recalling cultural symbols allows them to exist in a spiritual city of nature or a “real” location of a Hollywood ﬁction. Such texts are not divided by lines of high or popular culture as much as they fall against the criticisms of selfproclaimed pedants who tend to lay claim to a true and untainted view of nature’s landscape."[Neumann, Mark, and Neumann Mark *On the Rim: Looking for the Grand Canyon*. Univ Of Minnesota Press, 1999.]

14. "A city always contains more than any inhabitant can know, and a great city always makes the unknown and the possible spurs to the imagination. San Francisco has long been called the most European of American cities, a comment more often made than explained. What I think its speakers mean is that San Francisco, in its scale and its street life, keeps alive the idea of a city as a place of unmediated encounters, while most American cities are becoming more and more like enlarged suburbs, scrupulously controlled and segregated, designed for the noninteractions of motorists shuttling between private places rather than the interactions of pedestrians in public ones."[Solnit, Rebecca *Wanderlust: A History of Walking*. Penguin Books, 2001.]

15. "Faubourg means outside of the city; the building boom of the turn of the eighteenth century took place in a sort of no-man’s-land situated beyond Paris’s traditional limits. In these newly created areas, the first sub-urbs, architects set about reinventing the urban experience by building city dwellings that spread horizontally rather than vertically, each with its own private garden to add the pleasures of the country to those of city life."[DeJean, Joan *The age of comfort : when Paris discovered casual—and the modern home began*. Bloomsbury USA, 2009.]

16. "The loss of inscription in modern urban architecture and design is part of the loss of identity and meaning. This is why Ian Hamilton Finlay’s work has been so influential in modern landscape design, since it reclaims for inscription a central role in design and place-making. I often recall a conversation I once had with a planner from Stockholm City Council, during which we discussed what typologies of green open space were used in that city, and how topographers and planners distinguished wanted from unwanted open space there."[Worpole, Ken *Last Landscapes: The Architecture of the Cemetery in the West*. 2004.]

17. "De Certeau, using New York City as an example, writes that looked down upon the city appears as “the most immoderate of human texts” (De Certeau 1988, 92), which is totalized by the viewer’s gaze who presumes to know the city (cf. Tally 2013, 96); the other way to experience a city is to opt for “the street-level view of the pedestrian” (Tally 2013, 96) and thus write the city. Howitt belongs to the latter group; she does not look down on Munich but looks at it, idling through it, and constructs her own human text out of the many different fragments she sees on different days."[Liedke, Heidi *The Experience of Idling in Victorian Travel Texts, 1850–1901*. Springer International Publishing;Palgrave Macmillan, 2018.]

18. "Just as Shelley’s creature was jolted into life by electricity, so the city organism is stirred into life through sensual energy. The emerging body is a hybrid body, as illustrated in some of the neologisms, such as “treearms,” a nature/human hybrid; or in the sequence of “Herbstained—flowerstained—/ shellscented—seafaring—/ foresthunting—junglewise,” in which the city morphs into sensual nature. Finally, in the context of this city poem, consider her sculpture Cathedral (ca. 1918) (ﬁgure 8. 6, plate 10), the title referring to New York City’s hallmark “commercial cathedral,” the skyscrapers, which had become an international icon for New York’s modernity."[Gammel, Irene *Baroness Elsa: Gender, Dada, and Everyday Modernity--A Cultural Biography*. 2002.]

19. "In this comparatively artificial district, “even the Berliners are tourists in their own city. ”15 Untitled (Friedrich Passage) depicts the Friedrichstadt Passage arcade in the former East Berlin; the camera pans slowly through the desolate shopping center. Both works import photographs of the real environments to map onto objects in the game, drawing parallels between the artificial, simplistic, reduced quality of computer game architecture and that of the contemporary “generic city”—a city without identity, without any defining characteristics. 16 In his artist’s statement, Bernstrup points out how easy it was to transpose Potsdamer Platz into a virtual environment: “The [real] building facades consist of a few all very similar and significant sets Perfect Twins | | 167 | Rebecca Cannon | | 168 | a | Figure 8. 6a | Potsdamer Platz (Unreal Edit) (2001) of textures, which is good for increasing our CPU performance when navigating through the space in any reality” (my emphasis). 17 He also notes how quickly, as frequent tourists, we become accustomed to unrealities."[Flanagan, Mary, and Austin Booth *Re:skin*. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press, 2006.]

20. "Certain privileged parts of the city seemed to combine ail its éléments. At the point, for instance, where two roads diverge on their way towards the sea, you found yourself on the edge of the Rio Anhangabahu ravine, which is crossed by a bridge that is one of the city's main arteiies. Below was a park designed on English lines: lawns embellished with statues and kiosks; and at the point where the two slopes rose up were the city's principal buildings—the municipal théâtre, the Hôtel Esplanada, the Automobile Club, and the offices of the Canadian company which provided the city with lighting and public transport."[Levi-Strauss, Claude *Tristes Tropiques*. Atheneum, 1961.]

21. "It had long been supposed that diseases and viruses pitched their tents in the city environment. 86 And now politicians and real estate tycoons throughout North America exploited the fear of polio to sell people on clean suburban living. 87 In the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, such “urban blights” as typhus, cholera, tuberculosis, smallpox, and polio were frequently blamed on living in close proximity with the “ﬁlthy urban poor. ” Ebenezer Howard, for example, based his inﬂuential Garden City plans on a physician’s design for a healthy city called Hygeia."[Shell, Marc *Polio and Its Aftermath: The Paralysis of Culture*. Harvard University Press, 2005.]

22. "It is . . . estimated that passengers by a through city tube could be carried from City Hall to Madison Square in five minutes, to Harlem and Manhattanville in fourteen minutes, and by sub-river to Jersey City or Hoboken in five minutes, and to the City Hall, Brooklyn in two minutes. . . . Leaving to the imaginations of our accomplished readers the pleasant labor of converting, with all the material here afforded them, our confused and crowded city, with its no less crowded water boundaries, into a terrestrial paradise, where easy locomotion on land, on water, beneath them both, or in the air, can be enjoyed at will, we close this article, hoping, with them, that out of this great field of promise we may some day soon pluck flowers of comfort."[Sandler, Martin W. *Lost to Time*. Sterling, 2010.]

23. "They sleep in beds rented by the hour. They wash in communal latrines. They rarely see their families. India’s slums are no place to become sentimental about the virtues of density and the kind of ecology that both come from extreme poverty. But in Suketu Mehta’s fine portrait of Mumbai, Maximum City, you find an account of the place that they occupy in the wider city, and the kind of life that they make possible. It is not in their form that the squalor of a slum lies. The traditional graphic analysis of city fabric is the figure-ground drawing."[Sudjic, Deyan *B is for Bauhaus, Y is for YouTube: Designing the Modern World from A to Z*. Rizzoli Ex Libris, 2015.]

24. "As for the character of Andria's inhabitants, twO  virtues are worth mentioning: self-confidence and  prudence. Convinced that every innovation in the  city influences the sky's pattern, before taking any  decision they calculate the risks and advantages for  themselves and for the city and for all worlds.  You reproach me because each of my stories takes  you right into the heart of a city without telling you  of the space that stretches between one city and the  other, whether it is covered by seas, or fields of rye,  larch forests, swamps. 1 will answer you with a story.  "[INPUT: Calvino__Invisible_Cities.pdf]

25. "This need encouraged the spread of urbanisation. However, communication between the cities was difﬁcult, so each city developed into an individual city-state. This led to territorial disputes and, inevitably, war. In order to keep their cities protected, the Mesopotamians built fortiﬁcations, and walled cities rose. Migration to these cities increased, and more buildings were erected. Cities gradually expanded and rulers were proclaimed, who then began looking outwards for trade and conquest. Processional Way A designed city The Processional Way was a road that ran through the city and connected many of Babylon’s central buildings and temples."[(ed.), Sanne de Boer *How it works book of incredible history*. 7th ed. Imagine Publishing Ltd, 2016.]