Created: 2025-11-17 00:26:06
Origin: searched
Selected: It is this: the individual words in language name objects – sentences are combinations of such names. 8 – In this picture of language we find the roots of the following idea: Every word has a meaning. This meaning is correlated with the word. It is the object for which the word stands. The rest of the book was to examine the implications of this idea and the traps into which it led philosophers, and to suggest routes out of those traps. These routes all begin by dislodging the (pre-philosophical) picture of language expressed by Augustine, which gives rise to the philosophical idea mentioned above.[Monk, Ray *Ludwig Wittgenstein: The Duty of Genius*. New Ed. Vintage, 1991.]

--- Context List ---
01. "It is this: the individual words in language name objects – sentences are combinations of such names. 8 – In this picture of language we find the roots of the following idea: Every word has a meaning. This meaning is correlated with the word. It is the object for which the word stands. The rest of the book was to examine the implications of this idea and the traps into which it led philosophers, and to suggest routes out of those traps. These routes all begin by dislodging the (pre-philosophical) picture of language expressed by Augustine, which gives rise to the philosophical idea mentioned above."[Monk, Ray *Ludwig Wittgenstein: The Duty of Genius*. New Ed. Vintage, 1991.]

02. "The Brown Book is divided into two parts, corresponding, roughly, to the method and its application. Part I, introducing the method of language-games, reads almost like a textbook. After an introductory paragraph describing St Augustine’s account of ‘How, as a boy, he learned to talk’, it consists of seventy-two numbered ‘exercises’, many of which invite the reader to, for example: Imagine a people in whose language there is no such form of sentence as ‘the book is in the drawer’ or ‘water is in the glass’, but wherever we should use these forms they say, ‘The book can be taken out of the drawer’, ‘The water can be taken out of the glass’. 16 [see here] Imagine a tribe in whose language there is an expression corresponding to our ‘He has done so and so’, and another expression corresponding to our ‘He can do so and so’, this latter expression, however, being used only where its use is justified by the same fact which would also justify the former expression. 17 [see here] Imagine that human beings or animals were used as reading machines; assume that in order to become reading machines they need a particular training. 18 [see here] The book is difficult to read because the point of imagining these various situations is very rarely spelt out."[Monk, Ray *Ludwig Wittgenstein: The Duty of Genius*. New Ed. Vintage, 1991.]

03. "Often it seems helpful to call the reader’s attention to crucial passages in some of Nietzsche’s other works. These are cited in each instance according to sections, to enable the reader to find them in any edition; but in the case of material included in a volume of Nietzsche translations that I published in 195413 I have also given the page numbers in parentheses. 4 About the title of the book: like many of Nietzsche’s titles, phrases, and coinages, it is brilliant, unforgettable, and usually misconstrued."[Nietzsche, Friedrich *Beyond Good & Evil*. Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group, 2010.]

04. "38 Corresponds to Latin text E. 23. 39 This has no corresponding paragraph in the Latin text. 40 Corresponds to Latin text E. 25. 41 Latin text adds: De ratione subducendi, scribendi, similes faciendi lineas et superficies angulares  (On the method for extracting, drawing out and making similar lines and angular surfaces)."[INPUT: Williams et al. - 2010 - The Mathematical Works of Leon Battista Alberti.pdf]

05. " While it can be problematic to attempt to infer the true inspirations and intentions that  motivated Alberti’s writings, it is virtually certain that he developed much of the content of  Elements of Painting according to Euclid’s Elements, and that Alberti chose its title and  mathematical format in reference, and possibly deference, to the classical Greek text. It is  instructive, in this regard, that in the dedication Alberti himself refers to his work as ‘these  briefest of notes, which we call Elements’."[INPUT: Williams et al. - 2010 - The Mathematical Works of Leon Battista Alberti.pdf]

06. "176 7 Ghost Story , ISBN 0-8047-4100-X (cloth: alk. paper) 8 The Jew, Frontally and in Profile ISBN 0-8°47-4101-8 (pbk, : alk. paper) I. Icons, Byzantine. 2. Semiotics. I. Title. II. Series. I N8187·5·M65132004 306·4'7-DC22 2004000088 Original Printing 2005 Last figure below indicates year of this printing: 14 13 12 II 10 09 08 07 06 05 Extracts from the Iconoclast Horos ofHieria I Extracts from the Antirrhetics, by Nikephoros, Patriarch ofConstantinople I Notes I I I L Bibliography 227 259 Translator's Note A word needs to be said about the term imaginary as it appears in the title of this work and then periodically throughout the book."[Mondzain, Marie-Jose *Image, Icon, Economy: The Byzantine Origins of the Contemporary Imaginary (Cultural Memory in the Present)*. 2004.]

07. "In support of tacit connectives, see the very interesting argument by John Robert Ross ("On Declarative Sentences," in Roderick A. Jacobs and Peter S. Rosenbaum, eds. , Readings in English TTansformational GTammaT [Waltham, Mass. : Ginn & Company, 1970], pp. 222-272) that every unadorned declarative sentence is to be analyzed as an embedded dependent clause of a "performative" clause containing ''I'' as the deleted noun phrase, "say" as the deleted verb in the verb phrase, and "you" as the deleted indirect object, the claim being that only by appealing to this deleted higher clause in the deep structure can certain surface constraints on the use of reflexive pronouns (and certain other locutions) be accounted for by grammatical rules."[Goffman, Erving *Frame Analysis. An Essay on the Organization of Experience*. Northeastern University Press, 1986.]

08. "And words seem to be the binding agent for this thing whatever it is. So I wrote this comic book and as I wrote it, it became true. Things I would make the characters do, became true. By writing words onto paper and spelling them along with speaking and also vibrating these words you are inputting commands to the computer of the divine mind. When reading a sentence, the mind usually sees letters group together to form words rather than reading every individual letter that forms a word. That is why you sometimes mistake one word for another."[KOETTING, E.A., KURTIS JOSEPH, EDGAR KERVAL, BILL DUVENDACK, ASBJORN TORVOL, and FRANK WHITE *Azazel: Steal Fire from the Gods*. Become A Living God, 2019.]

09. "All rights reserved. Except for brief quotations in a review, this book, or any part thereof, may not be reproduced, stored in or introduced into a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise, without the prior written permission of the publisher. ISBN EAN ISBN EAN 1 85043 805 6 Hardback 978 1 85043 805 2 Hardback 1 85043 806 4 Paperback 978 1 85043 806 9 Paperback A full CIP record for this book is available from the British Library A full CIP record for this book is available from the Library of Congress Library of Congress catalog card: available Typeset in Adobe Garamond by Steve Tribe, Andover Printed and bound in Great Britain by MPG Books Ltd, Bodmin Contents Acknowledgements 1. vii Waking into Dream: Competence Cascades, Thick Texts and the Universalization of the Geek Aesthetic 1 2."[Kaveney, Roz *From Alien to The Matrix: Reading Science Fiction Film*. I. B. Tauris, 2005.]

10. "Even so, despite this injunction, the ratio eleven to four  (undecim ad quattuor) is clearly an error for eleven to fourteen (undecim ad  quattuordecim), as a simple comparative drawing would have shown [Alberti 1988: 219  (VII, x)]; see pp. 211–212 in the present volume for more details. The second reason is that  Alberti placed a higher value on written descriptions than on images. He was not alone in  this; various other authors beginning in antiquity also favoured words over images (cf. , for  example, [Furlan 2006: 207] and [Alberti 2007: 21])."[INPUT: Williams et al. - 2010 - The Mathematical Works of Leon Battista Alberti.pdf]

11. "And in nature there would be no reason for this. 48 Yet apparently this arrangement causes the viewer no problem at all. Audiences systematically translate the accented speech into foreign speech. Interestingly, in comic books and other written materials, the same effect is sometimes obtained by using lettering reminiscent of the sCript employed in the language a foreign character would ordinarily be speaking."[Goffman, Erving *Frame Analysis. An Essay on the Organization of Experience*. Northeastern University Press, 1986.]

12. "The actor will then find himself using not the wrong word but the wrong language. And in fact, this metaphor is also an actual example. If, as Wittgenstein suggested, ''To understand a sentence means to understand a language,"13 then it would seem that speaking a sentence presupposes a whole language and taCitly seeks to import its use. A person who is bilingual in English and German and in the company of others who are similarly competent can hear a sound he takes for "nine" and believe he is involved in talk utilizing English and its numbers, when in actuality a negation has occurred, namely, nein, and German is being spoken-a question of hearing the right sound but responding in the wrong frame."[Goffman, Erving *Frame Analysis. An Essay on the Organization of Experience*. Northeastern University Press, 1986.]

13. "In the series of lectures entitled ‘Philosophy’, Wittgenstein introduced a technique that was to become increasingly central to his philosophical method: the technique of inventing what he called ‘language-games’. This is the method of inventing imaginary situations in which language is used for some tightly defined practical purpose. It may be a few words or phrases from our own language or an entirely fictitious language, but what is essential is that, in picturing the situation, the language cannot be described without mentioning the use to which it is put."[Monk, Ray *Ludwig Wittgenstein: The Duty of Genius*. New Ed. Vintage, 1991.]

14. "For students, an introduction provides advice on the key skills of active reading, critical thinking, and writing. Terms in bold throughout the introduction refer to a glossary at the back of the book — which defines important writing terms, such as audience, evidence, and plagiarism. An annotated model paper shows students how to analyze and work with multiple sources. Headnotes contextualize each reading in its writer’s own place and time. As an aid to comprehension, the essays themselves are lightly glossed."[Cohen, Samuel *50 Essays: A Portable Anthology*. 5th ed. Bedford / St. Martin’s, 2016.]

15. "Let me offer one small example. “Poems of Akhziv,” a vivid cycle of erotic poems written in the 1970s, has been rendered in English by three different translators. One poem begins startlingly with the words (each of the three versions uses the same sexual term) “I have learned to relate to your cunt as to a face. ” But the Hebrew word Amichai uses, ‘ervah, is by no means an obscenity—modern Hebrew has a monosyllabic word, borrowed from the Arabic, that would correspond to the English four-letter term, but Amichai invariably avoids it."[Amichai, Yehuda, and Robert Alter *The Poetry of Yehuda Amichai*. Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2017.]