Created: 2025-12-23 18:44:21
Origin: searched
Selected: 7. 6 Sources of further information and advice Texts that provide more detailed information about new and emerging methods for measuring volatile compounds in foods are highly recommended (Reneiccius, 2006; Marsili, 2007a). For the latest developments in flavour research the reader should consult scientific journals, proceedings (symposia) of scientific meetings and technical papers presented at scientific meetings.[Griffiths, M. *Improving the Safety and Quality of Milk: Volume 2, Improving Quality in Milk Products (Woodhead Publishing Series in Food Science, Technology and Nutrition)*. Woodhead, CRC Press, 2010.]

--- Context List ---
01. "7. 6 Sources of further information and advice Texts that provide more detailed information about new and emerging methods for measuring volatile compounds in foods are highly recommended (Reneiccius, 2006; Marsili, 2007a). For the latest developments in flavour research the reader should consult scientific journals, proceedings (symposia) of scientific meetings and technical papers presented at scientific meetings."[Griffiths, M. *Improving the Safety and Quality of Milk: Volume 2, Improving Quality in Milk Products (Woodhead Publishing Series in Food Science, Technology and Nutrition)*. Woodhead, CRC Press, 2010.]

02. "Wozniak, R. H. A dialectical paradigm for psychological researh: Implications drawn from the history of psychology in the Soviet Union. Human Development, 1975, 18, 18-34. The Quantification of Knowledge in Education: On Resistance toward Qualitative Evaluation and Research 24 Steinar K11ale Introduction The Pythagoreans insisted that everything is numbers. Modern education involves a related assumption: evaluation of pupils' learning and educational research findings must be expressed in numbers-as grades and statistics-in order to be considered really real."[(auth.), Ashley Montagu, and Bruce Bain (eds.) *The Sociogenesis of Language and Human Conduct*. Springer US, 1983.]

03. "This vision, founded entirely upon traditional concepts, as we have noted, is developed in his later thought into an unprecedentedly dynamic picture of the earth and its waters—in the short, middle, and very long terms. Looking at the mechanisms of the earth as a whole, such natural processes result in continuous ﬂux that permeates every part of nature. In theory, since every element ‘desires’ to return to its due place in the order of things, the set-up should be moving towards a position of stasis, in which the spheres of earth, water, air, and ﬁre settle into neatly concentric zones."[Kemp, Martin *Leonardo: Revised Edition*. Revised. Oxford University Press, 2011.]

04. "The former included plants or animals. Animals fell into the categories of aquatic, aerial, or terrestrial. Dalgarno placed human beings in a different category and then differentiated between terrestrial creatures with a cloven hoof and a single hoof, like a horse or “nηkv,” in Dalgarno’s vocabulary. Word order rules denoted when a word was a noun, an adjective, or an adverb, and special suffi xes indicated verb tenses."[Garvía, Roberto *Esperanto and Its Rivals: The Struggle for an International Language*. University of Pennsylvania Press, 2015.]

05. "109 110 Patricia Marks Greenfield progress in this task of integrating cognitive processes-the mind as transformerwith cultural codes-the mind as a categorical template. For example, Kronenfeld {1979) has applied George Miller's {1956) magical number 7 ± 2 in conjunction with Bruner, Goodnow, and Austin's {1956) concept-attainment strategies to the analysis of decision making processes in various societies. In this work the concern is not with culturally standardized products but rather with culturally standardized processes."[(auth.), Ashley Montagu, and Bruce Bain (eds.) *The Sociogenesis of Language and Human Conduct*. Springer US, 1983.]

06. "The need for overt specification of movement elements in sign structure has been widely questioned (Hayes, 1993; Stack, 1988; Uyechi, 1996). In an analysis of ASL syllable structure (Corina, 1996), I proposed that dynamic elements of ASL phonology have a prosodic status in underlying representations. In this analysis, I argued that path movement could be treated as an underlying moraic location element. For example, a location which in underlying representation is moraic will manifest as a movement toward or away from that specific location in surface representation (for details, see Corina, 1996)."[Emmorey, Karen, and Harlan Lane (Editors) *The Signs of Language Revisited : An Anthology to Honor of Ursula Bellugi and Edward Klima*. Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Inc., 2000.]

07. "Oral communication is the most frequent form of communication; thus, the Es and the Rs are usually both present. This social situation has important consequences on the form of the message as well as its reception. The form of the message can consist of mixed elements, both verbal and nonverbal. (Refer to the concept of mixed syntax, Slama-Cazacu, 1968/1973a, 1976, 1977. )The message can be received by the auditive and visual channels simultaneously. In this model, communication cannot be detached from the context in which emission and reception occur."[(auth.), Ashley Montagu, and Bruce Bain (eds.) *The Sociogenesis of Language and Human Conduct*. Springer US, 1983.]

08. "Somewhat ironically, a well-worn Iberian framework seems to have reemerged in this context. Peter Wade recently concluded that “purity might appear an anachronistic concept, but insofar as it stands in for ‘racial difference,’ one can still detect its magnetic field in constant tension with ‘mixture. ’ ”24 The colonial administrative interest in official categories and combinations did not completely dissolve with the rise of the nation-state. Abandoned concepts like calidad and caste, once the obsession of scientific-minded bureaucrats, may yet take on renewed relevance through their commonalities with DNA testing and genetic science."[Gharala, Norah L. A. *Taxing Blackness: Free Afromexican Tribute in Bourbon New Spain*. Tuscaloosa: The University of Alabama Press, 2019.]

09. "Wickens considered voice and manual response modalities. He left it to future research to determine exactly how many independent subsystems of attention with independent pools of resources exist at the different stages of processing. Although the data are far from in, research has produced examples of independence, interference, and enhancement of processes at different stages of processing. At the earliest stages of processing, attention limits the amount of information that can be encoded and selected for further processing."[Emmorey, Karen, and Harlan Lane (Editors) *The Signs of Language Revisited : An Anthology to Honor of Ursula Bellugi and Edward Klima*. Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Inc., 2000.]

10. "For a research monograph published in the early twenty-first-century scholarly landscape, striving to be something other than monolingual would be disingenuous. Like most books published since 1800, this study has had to find some provisional delight in rehearsing monolingualism, reiterating it, and performing it, in hopes of rendering its implications audible, legible, and sensible. Whereas a history of an invention—or even a genealogy of an invention—must first imagine the world without the invented device, term, system, or element, this book cannot sustain such a leap, precisely because of its own acutely monolingual form and format."[Gramling, David *The Invention of Monolingualism*. Bloomsbury Academic, 2016.]

11. "The individual word and the individual 34 humboldt, worldview and language phoneme (speech sound, in Sapir’s vocabulary, Lee 1996: 44) only took on meaning within context in its interaction with other words and sounds. For Sapir, each point was a point in a pattern. Sapir used a dance metaphor to explain this when he claimed that just as a movement of the foot only becomes a step once it is integrated into a dance, so a ‘sound that is not unconsciously felt as “placed” with reference to other sounds is no more a true element of speech ."[Underhill, James *Humboldt, Worldview, and Language*. 2009.]

12. "The grammar of any particular language is a part, but only a part, of the picture. My second question was about the contribution that analysis of language texts can make to research on sociocultural change. I have been discussing Page 13 change in terms of border-crossing within and across orders of discourse. These border-crossings are of course effected in texts. The focus correspondingly is upon the hybridity of textshow texts in contexts of change can mix together discourses and genres in creative and often complex ways, cutting across conventional boundaries within and between orders of discourse."[Coleman, Hywel, and Lynne Cameron (Editors) *Change and Language: Papers From the Annual Meeting of the British Association for Applied Linguistics Held At the University of Leeds, September 1994*. Mulitlingual Matters, Ltd., 1996.]

13. "Frösén (1974)’s claim that Greek koine was the product of pidginization and creolization is given short shrift by Horrocks (1997: 33). Attic and koine cannot be treated as anything other than variants. There is no sense of the linguistic trauma all pidgins go through, in terms of loss of vocabulary, ‘simplification’ of morphology and phonology, and so on. 2. For a discussion of the history of the era and its cultural effects, see Green (1990). 3. There were unsuccessful attempts to produce a Doric koine (Horrocks 1997: 40–1); at one point, the foothold the Ptolemies had in Greece – in Rhodes and other Doric islands – used a Doric variety in its Chancery. 4. These suggestions are in line with the pompous and hypercorristic Latin spoken by the plutocratic freedman Trimalchio in Petronius’ Satyricon (mid first century CE). Trimalchio obviously has a slavery-derived form of Popular Latin as the basis of his idiolect; his literacy and social climbing have produced its grotesque features. 5."[Millar, Robert McColl *Authority and Identity: A Sociolinguistic History of Europe Before the Modern Age*. Palgrave Macmillan, 2010.]

14. "·etc. and the diphthongs *ai, *oi have resulted in long front vowels. as. in K:almuck: Alar ll,l < ·*ayil ''yurt''·, 8 ya has resulted in e. Conse. quentiy,. e funt~tions under tb:e vowei harmony rules ~s· a back vowel: sen "'ear'' - senma. . a ccusative. As for. the. vowels u and i, they are neutral: urikal (*uri-) "'prill 9ut! ''. b ut urik§l. (*ori-} ''remain!''; . u li. kal' ''tow!''. but ulikfJl. ~·f~edl''; . si/,an ''barbecued meat' ' but sili} '"so. u p'';. sikkal "~sweep. I'' but sikf}l ''e'x tin."[Poppe, Nicholas *Introduction to Altaic Linguistics*. Wiesbaden: Otto Harrassowitz, 1965.]

15. "Today Aromanian speakers live in pockets in northern Greece, as well as in the contiguous areas of Albania, the Republic of Macedonia, Bulgaria and on the plains of Serbia and, considerably to the north and west, in Dalmatia. Winnifrith (1987) conducts an admirable survey of theories of origin for this people, so often contaminated by modern nationalist debates on the history of Romania (and its claim to Transylvania) and the ‘ownership’ of Macedonia in its broadest sense."[Millar, Robert McColl *Authority and Identity: A Sociolinguistic History of Europe Before the Modern Age*. Palgrave Macmillan, 2010.]