Created: 2025-12-18 23:21:32
Origin: suggested
Selected: Thus, meanings are discovered, coming out of this particular kind of engagement, and places come into being through being involved with the activity itself. This approach differs from one that takes meaning to be overlaid upon the physical world, as if it were possible to take yourself out of it, and to place yourself above its surface. As an anthropologist, I have been working alongside generalists, art historians, architects, artists, students and teachers as part of a larger interdisciplinary project, Learning Is Understanding in Practice: Exploring the Interrelations between Perception, Creativity and Skill. 1 The research project combines approaches from art and anthropology to examine the interrelations between perception, creativity and skill, through a study of the knowledge practices of fine art.[(ed.), Cristina Grasseni *Skilled Visions: Between Apprenticeship and Standards*. Berghahn Books, 2007.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Thus, meanings are discovered, coming out of this particular kind of engagement, and places come into being through being involved with the activity itself. This approach differs from one that takes meaning to be overlaid upon the physical world, as if it were possible to take yourself out of it, and to place yourself above its surface. As an anthropologist, I have been working alongside generalists, art historians, architects, artists, students and teachers as part of a larger interdisciplinary project, Learning Is Understanding in Practice: Exploring the Interrelations between Perception, Creativity and Skill. 1 The research project combines approaches from art and anthropology to examine the interrelations between perception, creativity and skill, through a study of the knowledge practices of fine art."[(ed.), Cristina Grasseni *Skilled Visions: Between Apprenticeship and Standards*. Berghahn Books, 2007.]

02. "It carries over the qualities of appearance of one material into another: every order of columns, for ex- ample, imitates building in wood; it carries over the characteristics of one building into another. ”28 In this mode of thought, architecture was treated as a self-sufficient organism which in the process of self-articulation imitated only itself. Regarded as an organism, architecture became a complex fragment in the process of becoming. This, I believe, is the historical origin of all later discussions concerning the autonomy of architecture as well as of the problematic tradition of organic architecture."[Vesely, Dalibor *Architecture in the Age of Divided Representation: The Question of Creativity in the Shadow of Production*. The MIT Press, 2004.]

03. "Human societies tolerate an enormous amount of disorder, and one aspect of this disorder is what we call freedom. Wecan thus make use of disorder as a necessary element in innovative and creative processes, because all innovation and creation must inevitably be seen as deviation and error from the perspective of a previously fixed system. Such, then, is the manner in which one must conceive of the fundamental complexity of all living reality 1 would add that, if one must consider not objects, but systems, this means that the system itself can be considered as a part of a polysystem or as contained within a specific environment or ecosystem."[Morin, Edgar *On Complexity(Advances in Systems Theory, Complexity, and the Human Sciences)*. Hampton Press, 2008.]

04. "One describes it rather as a unity of distribution that opens a field of possible options, and enables ((74)) various mutually exclusive architectures to appear side by side or in turn. 2. But all the possible alternatives are not in fact realized: there are a good many partial groups, regional compatibilities, and coherent architectures that might have emerged, yet did not do so. In order to account for the choices that were made out of all those that could have been made (and those alone), one must describe the specific authorities that guided one's choice."[Foucault, Michel *The Archaeology of Knowledge*. 2nd. London; New York: Routledge, 2002.]

05. "Research on intersensory development can add another twist to this scenario, one that differs from arguments centred on structures, forms, and development, for the question arises of whether this structural synesthesia is actually a true union of the senses, the site of oneness (or even a common sense). That is, the question of the one and the multiple invariably returns, and as one reaches for the site of the one, the unified senses, one discovers that structural, formal synesthesia is a loose, disjointed affair, already differentiated and coordinated."[Massumi, Brian *A Shock to Thought: Expressions After Deleuze and Guattari (Philosophy & Cultural Studies)*. 2002.]

06. "On a definite, normative type of statement?I found formulations of levels that were much too different and functions that were much too heterogeneous to be linked together and arranged in a single figure, and to simulate, from one period to another, beyond individual oeuvres, a sort of great uninterrupted text. On a well-defined alphabet of notions?One is con-fronted with concepts that differ in structure and in the rules govern-ing their use, which ignore or exclude one another, and which cannot enter the unity of a logical architecture."[Foucault, Michel *The Archaeology of Knowledge*. 2nd. London; New York: Routledge, 2002.]

07. "Yes, certainly, in its manipulative conception that thrives on blind impulses, but political strategy requires complex knowing, because strategy plays itself out by working with and against uncertainty chance, the multiple play of Interactions and retroactions (feedback loops). THE NEED FOR COMPLEX THOUGHT What is complexity?At first glance, complexity is a fabric (complexus: that which is woven together) of heterogeneous constituents that are inseparably associated: complexity poses the paradox of the one and the many."[Morin, Edgar *On Complexity(Advances in Systems Theory, Complexity, and the Human Sciences)*. Hampton Press, 2008.]

08. "As he explains later in his methodological study The Archaeology of Knowledge: the great problem presented by such historical analyses is not how contin uities are established . . . the problem is no longer one of tradition, of tracing a line, but one of division, of limits; it is no longer one of lasting foundations, but one of transformations that serve as new foundations, the rebuilding of foundations. (AKDL: 5) We shall return to this idea later, but it is worth recognizi ng one of the motivations for his emphasis on discontinuity."[May, Todd *The philosophy of Foucault*. Acumen, 2006.]

09. "Anthropology provides tools for understanding cultures of thought within organizations and groups. Computer science supplies rigorous methods for understanding logics of processing, pattern recognition, and learning. Psychology offers ways of understanding group dynamics, and how to enhance or impair individual intelligence. Philosophy provides tools for thinking about thinking. My hope is that over the coming decades, different syntheses will emerge, some using the concepts set out in this book, to inform an emerging field of study that can analyze systems, patterns of thought, and problem solving."[Mulgan, Geoff *Big Mind: How Collective Intelligence Can Change Our World*. Princeton University Press, 2018.]

10. "Rather than marching punishment to crime, it affords a single punishment for all cnmes. To account for this emergence Foucau lt looks beyond the prison to other, more far-flung practices: The "invention" of this new po litical anatomy must not be seen as a sudden discovery. It is rather a multiplicity of often minor processes, of different origin and scattered location, which overlap, repeat, or imitate one another, su pport one another, distinguish themselves from one another according to their domain of application, converge and gradually produce the blueprint of a general (Ibid."[May, Todd *The philosophy of Foucault*. Acumen, 2006.]

11. "This is because to understand the whole one must understand its constituent parts, and hence the sense of the whole breaks down into the senses of its constituent parts. As Dummett puts the matter: The sense of a complex is compounded out of the senses of its constituents. (Dummett, 1973, p. 152; original emphasis)47 But this means that we not only have a functional relationship from the parts to the whole, but a converse functional relationship, in effect a one-to-one relation. 48 (Clearly no such principle holds for reference. )"[Kripke, Saul A. *Philosophical Troubles: Collected Papers, Volume 1*. OUP USA, 2011.]

12. "One has to create one’s own understanding of the problem. A holistic view cannot be delegated to an instrument. Let us move away from the world of systems development and look at work methods for problem-solving in other contexts. The philosopher Hans Larsson (1862–1944) offers perspectives on work methods in scientific research, where, on the one hand, clarity can be achieved (a synthesis created) by collecting and having a good command of scientific material, but . . . This is, however, only one side of the development we have in the current discussion on the progression from material that has already been studied, and its details clarified, to a synthesis."[Goranzon, Bo, Richard Ennals, and Maria Hammeron *Dialogue, Skill and Tacit Knowledge*. 2006.]

13. "Disorder was viewed as a function of human ignorance, something that would, eventually, with better knowledge, be integrated in the larger master-pian. One of the most interesting shifts in recent scientific thinking, in particular because of the sciences of chaos and complexity, has been a deeper understanding of the mutually constitutive relationship between order and disorder, information and noise. This shift also reflects a transition from a fundamentally static view of the world to one that is process oriented."[Morin, Edgar *On Complexity(Advances in Systems Theory, Complexity, and the Human Sciences)*. Hampton Press, 2008.]

14. "Skilled visions often rely on collaborative expertise and on a distribution of cognitive artefacts that are made available and relevant in the landscape of one’s practice – or taskscape (Ingold 1993). They often entail a capacity to discriminate: one may well isolate one trait from the flux of one’s sensorial experience, if this is more relevant or fundamental to one’s taskscape. Skilled visions cannot be associated solely with the use of specific visual media, or with image-making processes (video, film, digital photography, paper, wood, or imaging software)."[(ed.), Cristina Grasseni *Skilled Visions: Between Apprenticeship and Standards*. Berghahn Books, 2007.]

15. "Note that the coordination of understanding—aligning the mutually observed (consensual) consequences of understanding—is unlike what is commonly expressed as a sharing of understanding, information, experiences, or perspectives. The latter expression relies on a metaphor that misleads one to believe one could compare two individuals’ understandings while one can ascertain only whether the observed consequences of others’ understanding are consistent with the hypothesis that their understanding does not differ from one’s own."[Ciprut, Jose V. *Indeterminacy: The Mapped, the Navigable, and the Uncharted*. 2009.]