Created: 2025-12-29 22:12:28
Origin: suggested
Selected: But the new medium does not necessarily facilitate reading. One of the major obstacles hypertext creates for the activity of reading is to be found in its effect of decontextualization, when this effect is not mediated by the text or by the reader’s cognitive activity. Indeed, there can only be reading if the elements to be decoded are subjected to the test of comprehension. And, as we have seen before, to comprehend a piece of information implies that one can relate it to a context of reception so as to look at it in light of what is already known.[Vandendorpe, Christian *From Papyrus to Hypertext*. Urbana: University of Illinois Press, 2009.]

--- Context List ---
01. "But the new medium does not necessarily facilitate reading. One of the major obstacles hypertext creates for the activity of reading is to be found in its effect of decontextualization, when this effect is not mediated by the text or by the reader’s cognitive activity. Indeed, there can only be reading if the elements to be decoded are subjected to the test of comprehension. And, as we have seen before, to comprehend a piece of information implies that one can relate it to a context of reception so as to look at it in light of what is already known."[Vandendorpe, Christian *From Papyrus to Hypertext*. Urbana: University of Illinois Press, 2009.]

02. "See knowledge representation; representation digital media: and crisis in aesthetic discussions, 142; critical studies in, xvi; formalist assumptions underlying authority of, 134–35; generative materiality of, 130; low stability in relation of inscription to material, 148; and new ways to think about traditional work, 130; ontological properties of, 177; power ascribed to, 189; and the status of writing, 129 digital photography, 136 digital processing: and algorithms, 23; code storage as deﬁning condition of, 134; and digital humanities, 23; iterative aspects of, 216n1 digital projects, design of as rhetorical instrument, 131 digital surrogates, 23 digital technology: allows for continual transformation of artifacts, 173; functions accommodated more readily than print media, 174; identity of, 191 digital texts, 8; based on material codes, 146, 147; and content modeling, 112, 113; as ﬁeld of potentialities, 20, 77; illusion of immateriality, 145, 147, 155; material properties modeled in markup and metadata, 165; meaning inﬂected by graphical and visual properties, 152; n-dimensionality, 20–21; “non-self-identicality” of, 71, 78, 95, 120, 132; semantic content of, 8 disambiguation, 102 discourse analysis, 9, 41 discourse ﬁeld, 28 discursive temporality, 44 “dividing instant,” 38, 50 document type deﬁnition (DTD), 35, 40, 112, 116, 153 “double-parallax,” 120 Dublin Core Metadata Initiative, 8 Duchamp, Marcel, 180, 193 Duguid, Paul, 173 eBay, xvi e-books, 16; claims to overcome drawbacks of traditional books, 168; conceptual obstacles to, 167; designs Index of graphical interfaces for, 167; idea of “the book” guiding design of, 167–69, 174; limitations, 165–66 eikon/likeness, 137 “electric language,” 8, 145 electronic environments."[Drucker, Johanna *SpecLab: Digital Aesthetics and Projects in Speculative Computing*. 2009.]

03. "One tenet of faith in the ﬁeld of digital humanities is that engaging with the constraints of electronic texts provides insight into traditional text formats. 24 Making explicit much that might elsewhere be left implicit is a necessity in a digital environment: computers, as we are often reminded, cannot tolerate the ambiguity typical of humanities texts and interpretative methods. Because digital metatexts are designed to do something to texts (divide elements by content, type, or behavior) or to do something as metatexts (in databases, markup languages, metadata) they are performative."[Drucker, Johanna *SpecLab: Digital Aesthetics and Projects in Speculative Computing*. 2009.]

04. "As networked and programmable machines aggregate video, film, sound, and graphics into a single platform, the interplay between text and graphics expands exponentially, as it does in OR. In sum, digital-inscription media and the de-differentiation they are presently undergoing can be erased from OR precisely because they are omnipresent in its writing practices. The paradigmatic variations, along with mirror symmetries, function as the visible linguistic technologies made possible by digital technologies of inscription; nowhere present within the narrative diegesis, digital technologies are everywhere apparent when we consider the writing-down system as a whole."[Hayles, N. Katherine *How We Think: Digital Media and Contemporary Technogenesis*. University Of Chicago Press, 2012.]

05. "Hence, in any multimodal text, it is useful to chart a typical reading path that the hypothetical reader may follow in the reading of different episodes on a page. In a sense, the reading path is the order by which the reader may process different episodes in a multimodal text. As previously mentioned, Thibault (2000, forthcoming) and Baldry and Thibault (2001, 2004) use phasal analysis in their deconstruction of a film segment, where salience or the 'use of foregrounding strategies' allows for certain modalities to be thrust into prominence."[O'Halloran, Kay L. *Multimodal Discourse Analysis: Systemic Functional Perspectives (Open Linguistics)*. 2004.]

06. "In creative texts, the digital poet often aims to combine fragments of text and iconic elements so as to create a textual work situated at the intersection of poem and image. This hybridization of text with the visual is characteristic not only of emerging literary production, but also of many information sites, in which the formatting of textual data draws extensively on the resources of graphic design. Because of the ease with which computers can process digital data, images are winning a legitimate place in communication."[Vandendorpe, Christian *From Papyrus to Hypertext*. Urbana: University of Illinois Press, 2009.]

07. "Moreover, print-based scholars increasingly compose, edit, and disseminate files in digital form without worrying too much about how digital text differs from print, so they tend not to see the ways in which digital text, although superficially similar to print, differs profoundly in its internal structures, as well as in the different functionalities, protocols, and communicative possibilities of networked and programmable machines. The second kind of failure manifests as resistance to, or outright rejection of, work in digital media."[Hayles, N. Katherine *How We Think: Digital Media and Contemporary Technogenesis*. University Of Chicago Press, 2012.]

08. "Curriculum documents and assessment requirements for reading and writing are based on established theories on the reading and writing of print-based texts. These theories have determined specific approaches and strategies for teaching reading and writing at different stages of learning. Yet, ongoing research is required to theorise the interactions that occur as learners read and process various visual, aural, spatial and textual modes, separately or simultaneously, in multimodal texts."[(Editor), Evripides Zantides *Semiotics and Visual Communication: Concepts and Practices*. Cambridge Scholars, 2014.]

09. "It is important to note that we are not concerned with factintensive information like timetables or company catalogues; this type of information has its own distinct set of developmental issues to explore. Our premise is that conversation using text-based digital media is hampered by an inability to express the nuances of meaning (emotional, cultural, physical, sensory) that enrich most other forms of communication. It will be argued that the user-led development and application of iconic elements within a text can help enrich the communication process."[Barker, Philip *Iconic Communication*. 2001.]

10. "We think it is important to keep this holistic, experiential point of view at the heart of literary study in the Digital Humanities. Luckily, the traditional, non-digital fields of philology and literary criticism have provided an extensive toolkit for this task in the form of literary “theory. ” Sometimes, “Digital Humanities” itself seems to be used as the name of a certain school or theory of textual analysis [22]. 2 At other times, both practitioners and critics of Digital Humanities will argue that its very nature is to be objective, deliberately set apart from theoretical frameworks and readerly preconceptions [26]."[Forstall, Christopher W., and Walter J. Scheirer *Quantitative Intertextuality: Analyzing the Markers of Information Reuse*. Springer International Publishing, 2019.]

11. "Early theorists concerned with presenting and retrieving information envisaged a system for providing complete access to the 'endlessly expansive world of texts' (Tuman, 1992: 55). The term 'hypertext', coined by Ted Nelson in the 1960s, was used to refer to a form of electronic text where the mode of publication was characterized by 'non-sequential writing'; that is, 'text that branches and allows choices to the reader' in the form of 'a series of text chunks connected by links which offer the reader different pathways' through an interactive screen interface (Landow, 1997: 3)."[O'Halloran, Kay L. *Multimodal Discourse Analysis: Systemic Functional Perspectives (Open Linguistics)*. 2004.]

12. "The reader too is engaged in work to extract the information supplied in the image. Rebus Sacco’s work here is silent, but another way in which the reader may be led to work for the supply of information in a comics text is via the piecing-together of words and images when they share playfully in interaction, rapidly mode-swapping."[Davies, Paul Fisher *Comics As Communication: A Functional Approach*. Palgrave Macmillan, 2019.]

13. "Technical Communications and Digital Literacy In an introduction to a recent edition of Computers and Composition, Carolyn Handa emphasizes the need to “think more critically” about how digital innovations “impact our writing classes in terms of rhetoric and literacy” (1)."[Murray, Joddy *Non-discursive Rhetoric: Image and Affect in Multimodal Composition*. 2009.]

14. "32 Genres: Texts and Artifacts Furthermore, claims that an author shaped a text with a certain literary value in mind must be differentiated from claims about shaping a text for cognitive or informational value. Classifications of texts by their degree of literary ambition or development, like those mentioned earlier, frequently blur the distinction between writing that is designed to transmit information as clearly as possible and a maximally simple style, arguing that any elaboration is a kind of literary posturing and a departure from the “technical. ” This approach seems to rely on the idea that texts containing technical subject matter must be directed to one of two audiences: fellow technical practitioners who care only for a text’s content and not its form, or a more generalized but learned audience that demands literary style and rhetorical polish and may not care very much about the depth of information presented."[Roby, Courtney *Technical ekphrasis in Greek and Roman science and literature: the written machine between Alexandria and Rome*. Cambridge University Press, 2016.]

15. "instrument of writing and picturing, the public text domain needs to serve as a generic screen for multimodal projections, for which uniform, layout-free text is sufficient. library — literary, headmaster, novelist, bookworm, prefect, reread The intention is not to read these documents in a conventional manner nor to retrieve them in full. Instead they form a digital substrate, and normalising the data format is the first step that facilitates the operability of this TEXT domain. That said, at this stage the texts do remain in legible form, no lemmatisation, segmentation or filtering is applied. They are merely reduced to their most basic form of plain text, line breaks as the only formatting retained. Further analytic pre-processing of the text is applied when vectorising the text (see 3. 3). "[INPUT: content_small.pdf]

16. "Literary and Linguistic Computing 28, 221–228 (2012) [6] Coffee, N. , Koenig, J. P. , Poornima, S. , Ossewaarde, R. , Forstall, C. , Jacobson, S. : Intertextuality in the digital age. Transactions of the American Philological Association 142, 381–419 (2) [7] Ehrlich, S. F. , Rayner, K. : Contextual effects on word perception and eye movements during reading. Journal of verbal learning and verbal behavior 20(6), 641–655 (1981) [8] Ericsson, K. A. , Charness, N. , Feltovich, P. J. , Hoffman, R. R."[Forstall, Christopher W., and Walter J. Scheirer *Quantitative Intertextuality: Analyzing the Markers of Information Reuse*. Springer International Publishing, 2019.]

17. "In fact, multimodality is a compositional form that comes from processes based in images which, coincidentally, happens to be closer to the way humans think than the chaining together of concepts as demanded by discursive text. Part of the difﬁculty both students and teachers have who are unfamiliar with incorporating multimedia into their rhetorical texts stems from their inexperience in reading such texts. Just as any writing course stresses close reading as a way to improve writing, so must multimodal reading become a method of improving multimodal writing."[Murray, Joddy *Non-discursive Rhetoric: Image and Affect in Multimodal Composition*. 2009.]

18. "GPT). blue captions indicate the images provided based on content. Throughout the thesis, these quotes and images are included based on a personal curation, choices I made from presented contents based on the state of the writing at that moment. In the majority of the writing, they are treated as a commentary on the text, a stream of resonant information from the digital plenty, sometimes a counterpoint, other times a compatible statement, or simply a context in which the argument feels at home. This role of a digital ornamentation is how they are given a place throughout chapters 1,2, 3 and 5."[INPUT: content_small.pdf]

19. "It also reflects the authors’ desire to disconcert the reader, to create an effect of surprise, thereby rendering the act of reading itself more difficult, more “tentative” as the reader deals with and processes the information. The reader is unable to take the text for granted, and clear-cut distinctions between one word class and another become blurred. It is possible to draw a parallel here between the reading experience and the experience of visiting experimental architecture."[Lecercle, Jean-Jacques, and Françoise Kral *Architecture and Philosophy: New Perspectives on the Work of Arakawa & Madeline Gins. (Architecture - Technology - Culture)*. Amsterdam: Rodopi, 2010.]

20. "On oneside is information-something inherent to things and events in the world; on the other side are organismsentities capable of extracting and processing information. But this is not the way things are. Information cannot be separated from the organisms and processes that extract it. Its properties result only as a consequence of cognitive processes. I offer here an exercise that aims to understand the relationships between theperceptual processes involved in reading text and the information that is acquired during reading."[Massironi, Manfredo, and Translated by N Bruno *The Psychology of Graphic Images: Seeing, Drawing, Communicating (Volume in the University of Alberta, Department of Psychology, Distinguished Scholar Lecture)*. 2001.]

21. "The Difference-Scape ASYMPTOTE R E L A T I O N T O architectural and spatial practices the use of digital technologies posits a number of interesting questions regarding notions of futility, conceptual artifice, and representation. Even if we think of the computer as a (neutral) tool embedded into the complex procedures of design, it is still capable of dismantling our conventional modes of making, reading, writing, communicating, and, inevitably, comprehending. Digital technologies, themselves being the foundation of computing, the Web, the mass media, and a vast array of other so-called advances are no less tools of expression and form-givers to desires as they are sociopolitical instruments."[Beckmann, John (ed.), and John Beckmann *Virtual Dimension: Architecture, Representation, and Crash Culture*. Princeton Architectural Press, 1998.]

22. "(Language of New Media 90) The variability of the electronic image thus corresponds to the multifunctionality of digital displays, which call, alternately, for passive and active responses on the part of the viewer. One consequence of the multivalence of digital screens is a capacity to react to them simultaneously as image and as information. The digital screen is no longer a passive surface receiving representations or presenting them. Rather, as appropriate to the separation of inputs and outputs in information processing, as well as the symbiosis of the digital and the analogical, the surface of the screen now vacillates between two different but related purposes: providing a perceptually convincing image— that is, a representation—and providing efﬁcient access to information."[Rodowick, D. N. *The Virtual Life of Film*. 2007.]

23. "This re-viewing, moreover, takes place in the creation of the digital resource as well as in the final product. It is important to make this point because digital humanities has sometimes been regarded, even among exponents, as a largely ‘instrumentalist’ field in which the traditional interpretative questions of the ‘humanities’ (that is, of literary scholarship) are forsaken in favour of the project-based creation of digital tools and archives. A recent article in the Los Angeles Review of Books makes this point: ‘What Digital Humanities is not about, despite its explicit claims, is the use of digital or quantitative methodologies to answer research questions in the humanities."[(auth.), Julia Thomas *Nineteenth-Century Illustration and the Digital: Studies in Word and Image*. Palgrave Macmillan, 2017.]

24. "The intelligence of Roberto Bottazzi’s book is to avoid a monolithic singular reading structure in favor of a more discursive reasoning, setting up an “economy” of the reading tailored to our own management of the different parts. This reminds us of the contemporary cognitive universe distributed along sites, islands of knowledge where interpretation and comprehension are segmented and determined by relational games. The chapters function as binding agents to organize texts regarding different meanings and definitions of concepts (data and information, geometrical or digital paradigms, physical computation and parametric, random numbers in history …)."[Bottazzi, Roberto *Digital Architecture Beyond Computers: Fragments of a Cultural History of Computational Design*. Hardcover. Bloomsbury Visual Arts, 2018.]

25. "Typography has a dual purpose, on the one hand it attracts attention through the impact of its dynamic form, on the other it must impart critical information with clarity. Student designers analyse the text and investigate the means of articulating the information, assigning relative importance through typographic techniques. The intention of performing such a task is to encourage people to read information in a preconceived order. Emphasis is given, through contrast, on: size, weight, 292 A Course in Visual Communication position and colour of type."[(Editor), Evripides Zantides *Semiotics and Visual Communication: Concepts and Practices*. Cambridge Scholars, 2014.]