Created: 2025-12-26 19:03:31
Origin: suggested
Selected: But the Old English flor (1,000 AD), meaning floor, ground, pavement, and bottom (as in the bottom PAGE 8 FLOOR 2014 Featureless and soundless (except for sneakers, which squeak on it), an architecture office's expansive  gray rubber floor, by manufacturers Nora, provides the most neutral possible platform for work. of a lake), could be both an Indoor and an outdoor condition. 3 The threshing floor -  an outdoor floor  technology predating the ancients -  was a bit of hardened or paved ground for stamping, thrashing  or grinding grain, often located on high ground to catch the wind.[INPUT: floor.pdf]

--- Context List ---
01. "But the Old English flor (1,000 AD), meaning floor, ground, pavement, and bottom (as in the bottom PAGE 8 FLOOR 2014 Featureless and soundless (except for sneakers, which squeak on it), an architecture office's expansive  gray rubber floor, by manufacturers Nora, provides the most neutral possible platform for work. of a lake), could be both an Indoor and an outdoor condition. 3 The threshing floor -  an outdoor floor  technology predating the ancients -  was a bit of hardened or paved ground for stamping, thrashing  or grinding grain, often located on high ground to catch the wind."[INPUT: floor.pdf]

02. "2010 Floor vs. ramp: SANAA'S Rolex Learning Center in Lausanne, built  as a single massive chamber with an undulating floor. The uneven  topography is an attempt to force "bumping into" between disciplines,  and an effort to claim an inclined surface as equally liveable and usable  as the floor. PAGE 60 FLOOR 2005 Killing floor: "The blood runs so thick, at times two inches . . .  that every now and again during the production the workers have to  first sweep it away into the gutter that will take it to another part of  the factory where it is processed into animal feed etc. "— Juhan Kuus,  photographer, describing Maitland abattoir in Cape Town. "[INPUT: floor.pdf]

03. "Then we would install 2-inch XPS foam boards to the floor using EcoStud’s plastic “Z”-shaped furring strip. That would take care of the moldy smell from the walls and floor. Then we added special floor drain check valves and a sump pump cover to seal off the drain system and eliminate the swampy smell. All of those efforts would also slow or stop the movement of radon into the space."[Wilson, Jeff *The Greened House Effect: Renovating Your Home with a Deep Energy Retrofit*. 2nd ed. Chelsea Green Publishing, 2013.]

04. "On the upper floor where Harland stands are the remains of his Radroach meals. Harland carries a Hunting Rifle, and a key on his corpse. Also on the upper area is a Shipping Terminal, with Quest-critical information: 40 41 42 > RE: Shipment Mistake?I Door to REPCONN Facility [Easy] > RE: Workplace Misbehavior 28 (Floor B1) Pressure Control Room • Sleeping Quarters 29 (Floor B1 and B2) T-Junction Corridor There are few Caps scattered at this junction and along this corridor, which allows access to all the main chambers in this area."[Games, Prima *Fallout New Vegas*. Prima Games, 2010.]

05. "Outside becomes in, inside becomes out. Lighting armatures and lighting levels were very important because of the function of the space, and soft lighting combines with natural materials to create a warm, welcoming feel. 在室内的表面设计中，马赛克、天然石材、木材、玻璃和镜 子等材料相互作用，打造出了一曲和谐的乐章。设计师精心 挑选了一些图案、海报和标语贴在墙面上，为空间增添了浪 漫的感觉。 2 1. Wood floor in cutting area creates a relaxing atmosphere 2."[Chang, Catherine *Beauty Salons*. Liaoning Science & Technology Publishing House, Profession Design Press, 2011.]

06. "Ie) Horizontal section for two doors at landing. Vertical Circulation 11'-0" 1 Car 563 t 7'-0" Overhead Car B'-O" Top -;---'-- Floor Machine Room Rise (c) (a) r--f"'''' " \' . . . . . . ,. . "\ 1--, . / , " 1~8' I I II I I T I I I . . . . . . 'r L. I I Machine Room r - --I I I . 4'-3"I 14'-3" rI I I - -11 Car I : L=~~l-L------f- d 0 11 Hoisting Machine Foundation (b) I-c--j IT c:J Jl d 0 w=~~ (d) Fig."[Merritt, Frederick S., and James Ambrose (auth.) *Building Engineering and Systems Design*. Springer US, 1989.]

07. "The textural details of previous occupants are kept intact 4. There is a map-like pattern on the concrete floor 5. It is a space of pure white 6. Different areas have different lightings 1. 白色的墙壁从天花板一直延伸到地板 2. 顾客在等候时可以阅读杂志 3. 从前租户所留下的印记被原封不动地保留了下来 4. 水泥地面上有一块类似地图的图案 5. 这是一个纯白的空间 6. 不同区域的灯光不同 1 4 5 2 3 3 6 230 - 231 1. Reception 2. Waiting area 3. Cutting area 4."[Chang, Catherine *Beauty Salons*. Liaoning Science & Technology Publishing House, Profession Design Press, 2011.]

08. "Outside the block walls and concrete floor of my old basement there was no insulation, just good old-fashioned dirt. Heat from inside my house was rushing out of the furniture, air, interior walls, human bodies—you name it—through the floors, into the basement, and then through the highly conductive masonry surfaces of the basement walls and floor into the cool soil beyond."[Wilson, Jeff *The Greened House Effect: Renovating Your Home with a Deep Energy Retrofit*. 2nd ed. Chelsea Green Publishing, 2013.]

09. "Upstairs Meeting Room (now Downstairs) The upper floor has fallen in on a cubicle office below. Note the exits; out to the warehouse, and up the rubble to the upper floor. 10 > Check draft • Sunset Sarsaparilla Crate Items (203) • First Aid Box > Great Job: The automated Janitor system is a great success!9 Shipping Warehouse > Check message 13 Mr. Janitor’s Closet Mr. Janitor is currently offline."[Games, Prima *Fallout New Vegas*. Prima Games, 2010.]

10. "In this way the air blown into the air pushes vitiated air outwards in a natural way through the “light above” (small window above the front door), given appropriate open. Figure 3: Rate of operation and use underground spaces. The measurements made in this configuration made it possible to check the impact of the loop on the parameters of indoor comfort."[Brebbia, C. A., D. Kaliampakos, and P. Prochazka *Underground Spaces : Design, Engineering and Environmental Aspects (Wit Transactions on the Built Environment)*. WIT Press, 2008.]

11. "The flats have upper floors formed in pre-cast concrete. A concrete floor (and its floor finish) provides better fire protection and sound insulation than the timber floor shown above. When the planks have been laid they are grouted to fill any holes or gaps. A 75mm screed forms the base for the resilient chipboard/foam finishing layer. Because the concrete floor and applied screed will contain construction moisture they are separated from the floor decking by a polythene vapour control layer."[MBEng, Duncan Marshall BSc MCIOB, and Derek Worthing BSc Mphil MRICS *The Construction of Houses, Fourth Edition*. 4th ed. Estates Gazette Ltd, 2006.]

12. "Exceptions to this would be rooms below ground level where damp could damage the timber, rooms which were likely to be wet due to their function, eg kitchens and sculleries, and some working class terraced housing built with clay block floors or stone flags. NB For more information on timber see Chapter 11- Timber-Frame Housing. The floor (often referred to as a raised timber floor or suspended floor) consists of a series of joists supported by the loadbearing walls and covered with floorboards."[MBEng, Duncan Marshall BSc MCIOB, and Derek Worthing BSc Mphil MRICS *The Construction of Houses, Fourth Edition*. 4th ed. Estates Gazette Ltd, 2006.]

13. "Inside it a chamber (8. 8 by 7m) is formed and a second storey once stood over it, the floor of which was supported by heavy timber beams laid transversely from north to south. The floor itself probably consisted of clayey earth laid over a bed of smaller transverse timbers and rushes. Access to the room beneath was only possible at second-storey level by means of a trap door and a ladder."[Fields, Nic, Donato Spedaliere, and Sarah Sulemsohn Spedaliere *Troy c. 1700-1250 BC*. Osprey Publishing, 2004.]

14. "Then, a fan blows the air through equipment that adds or absorbs moisture and the supply duct to terminal units in each room, cools the air. The air is then blown by a fan where a thermostat controls the discharge into a separator equipped with a sound trap, temperature. where the air stream is divided into the primary The room terminal unit may be of the straight and secondary supply."[Merritt, Frederick S., and James Ambrose (auth.) *Building Engineering and Systems Design*. Springer US, 1989.]

15. "Cool air is more dense than warm air."[Kelly, Lynne *The Skeptic's Guide to the Paranormal*. Allen & Unwin, 2004.]

16. "The fact that the packing case was quite air-tight and that the metal case containing the painting was also air-tight — minimized very greatly the possibility of replacement of conditioned air by cabin air of such low humidity each time the plane landed. (At high altitudes Air transport - lower cabin pressure — packing cases "exhale" air - at sea level dry cabin air is "inhaled" into the cases thereby affecting the painting)."[(Auth.), VASTA *Conservation & Exhibitions*. Butterworth-Heinemann, 1987.]

17. "In this configuration it was possible to make measurements with the planting of recycling and treatment of the environment on (UTA - air handling unit), which change air without conditioning."[Brebbia, C. A., D. Kaliampakos, and P. Prochazka *Underground Spaces : Design, Engineering and Environmental Aspects (Wit Transactions on the Built Environment)*. WIT Press, 2008.]

18. "Current ideas include the concept of local cooling through recirculating air-conditioning cabinets with the servicing for these, including pipework, within the raised floor system. Clearly, the substitution of the underfloor space as a recipient area for services instead of the suspended ceiling requires considerable forethought in the way service grids are organized and the way space capacity is incorporated."[Blanc, Alan *Internal Components*. Routledge, 1994.]

19. "This air, if very damp, or dry relative to the case internal environment may cause damage to the contents. Air pressure differences in this way may upset the R H balance of humidity-sensitive works of art during air transits and lead to structural changes in humidity-sensitive artifacts. Air transport The changes in atmospheric pressure and temperature of air at various altitudes are shown in Figure 10. 19."[(Auth.), VASTA *Conservation & Exhibitions*. Butterworth-Heinemann, 1987.]

20. "Over the years, a few archaeologists have come to explore its crumbling stone buildings and pyramids. But almost no tourists visit. Some workers clear away trees and brush from the great pyramid. Others clean the floor of the temple. This floor greatly interests Ruz. All the other buildings in Palenque have stucco floors. The Temple of the Inscriptions has a flagstone floor."[Kops, Deborah *Palenque (Unearthing Ancient Worlds)*. 2008.]

21. "| 99 100 | Developing a Rough Floor Plan N COFFEE MECHANICAL DIRECTOR ADMIN."[Karlen, Mark, and Rob Fleming *Space Planning Basics*. 4th ed. Wiley, 2016.]

22. "Shallow floors are suitable for lightweight use only and can take normal general office loading of 2. 5 kN/m2 ; heavy equipment, such as safes. large computers and bulk storage, need special consideration. The use of high-grade panels and jacks • a large proportion of the floor needs to be accessible; • services need to be routed across deep-plan buildings; • the floor void serves as a plenum for heating and ventilation."[Blanc, Alan *Internal Components*. Routledge, 1994.]

23. "In an enclosed room, this therefore results in different air temperatures, with a layer of warmer air at the top and cooler air below. Objects create an obstacle to the flow of air, splitting up the current of air as it flows past (fig. A 1. 20). Besides creating turbulence, this also leads to higher air pressure on the windward side of the building and lower relative pressure (suction) on the leeward side."[Herzog, Thomas *Facade Construction Manual*. Birkhäuser Architecture, 2004.]

24. "The walls are a large “plane. ” The sofa is a large “plane. ” The floor coverings and floor are large planes. My apartment might be a fun example to analyze . . . Our dining room and living room have zany painted floors—a deep beigey color coupled with a crisp white to make a wild, but not too wild, checkerboard floor. The walls pull from the white in the floor—a quiet “plane” in contrast with the “pop” of the painted floors."[Salway, Christina, and Monica Pedersen *Home improvement projects for the busy & broke: how to get your $h!t together and live like an adult*. Skyhorse Publishing, 2016.]

25. "à terre [ah tehr]—On the floor; refers to movements performed with the working leg touching the floor as opposed to in the air."[Kassing, Gayle *Beginning ballet*. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2013.]