Created: 2025-12-27 02:26:28
Origin: suggested
Selected: ¡ e x a c t it u d e I Symbolic stairs are exactly ingrained and attached down  ' to,he last millimeter or tenth of a millimeter. But in places  PJBpre it doesn't really matter, such as side-stairs or also in  lurches, one finds a motley assortment of dimensions. such cases, a second or third-rate craftsman was  working with the materials at his disposal. So we came to  the realization that the exactitude of the stairs' dimensions  was directly related to their significance. The emperor, king  0r Prince had exactly constructed stairs. The beggar is not [INPUT: stair.pdf]

--- Context List ---
01. "How dull, in contrast, are intact stairs who stand with ease, paying no attention to the perfect state of their matter. Such stairs rise despite their steps. The function transcends the material. The material is instrumental to an overriding activity that pursues its goal without noticeable difficulty. A flight of stairs is but of fleeting interest, unless it is a new and remarkable form."[Ginsberg, Robert *The Aesthetics of Ruins: Illustrated by the Author*. Rodopi, 2004.]

02. "¡ e x a c t it u d e I Symbolic stairs are exactly ingrained and attached down  ' to,he last millimeter or tenth of a millimeter. But in places  PJBpre it doesn't really matter, such as side-stairs or also in  lurches, one finds a motley assortment of dimensions. such cases, a second or third-rate craftsman was  working with the materials at his disposal. So we came to  the realization that the exactitude of the stairs' dimensions  was directly related to their significance. The emperor, king  0r Prince had exactly constructed stairs. The beggar is not "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

03. "Some people still protest that such a distinction should still be made – that the word ‘staircase’ should mean the enclosure and not the stair. However, this definition does not reflect either the OED or common usage. As the OED admits, the word staircase is now (and has been for some time) used to mean ‘a flight of stairs or sometimes a whole series of flights of stairs with their supporting framework, balusters etc. ’ This book will follow the OED definition and the general understanding, that a staircase means the whole, made up of stairs, balusters, handrails, etc."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

04. "Friedrich Mielke: "Scalalogie zwischen Flimmel und Erde" (1996), in (ders. , Flrsg. ): Collectaneen 4, Band IX der Scalalogia-Schriften zur internationalen Treppenforschung (Stamsried: Verlag Ernst Vögel, 2001), S. 17. STAIR PAGE 129 Now we get to the point. One of my colleagues said, while looking at the stairs: Actually, the spiral staircase is the best stair in the world, for those who have short legs,  can walk on the inside where treads are smaller, and those with long legs, have enough space to ascend along its periphery. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

05. "Applications for the copyright holder's written permission to reproduce any part of this publication should be addressed to the publishers British Library Cataloguing in Publication Data Blanc, Sylvia Stairs. ± 2nd ed. 1. Staircases 2. Stairs I. Title II. Blanc, Alan 721. 8 0 32 Library of Congress Cataloguing in Publication Data A catalogue record for this book is available from the Library of Congress ISBN 0 7506 4846 5 Printed and bound in Great Britain Contents Foreword vii 1 Introduction 1 2 Civic and public stairs 3 Commercial stairs 4 Domestic stairs 5 External stairs 5 29 47 70 6 Detailed construction: timber 92 7 Detailed construction: iron, steel and other metals 114 8 Concrete stairs 136 9 Stonework and composite construction 151 10 Design codes and procedures 11 Elevators and mechanical circulation 178 12 International case studies 13 Case studies in the UK Epilogue Index 230 231 200 213 158 This Page Intentionally Left Blank Foreword It is cause for wonderment that the seemingly mundane device de®ned as `a means of passing from one level to another by increments, more or less comforable ± the vertical measures known as risers and the horizontal goings as treads' has, through history, generated such richly charged cultural and technical invention."[Blanc, Sylvia, and Alan Blanc *Stairs, Second Edition*. Architectural Press, 2001.]

06. "The elevated moving stairs and exciting lifts create a new art form (Figures 3. 18a and 3. 18b). The success rests upon the innate curiosity of people to ascend and move to brighter elements in the interior. Vertigo is combated by tinted glass balustrades, ledges and high-level handrailing. 3. 2 Accommodation stairs Accommodation stairs are de®ned as additional or amenity stairs in excess of means of escape provisions."[Blanc, Sylvia, and Alan Blanc *Stairs, Second Edition*. Architectural Press, 2001.]

07. "Cantilevered stairs have been described in the previous chapters. They provide an excellent example of the variety of ways that engineers become involved, whether the stairs are traditional in form and materials, or are modern feature stairs built in new materials. The way these stairs ‘work’ structurally has been the subject of much debate between engineers for many years."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

08. "Even for buildings less than 11 stories, occupants located closer to the stair may travel further in the stair than outside of it. Furthermore, because the stair shaft is required to be fire-rated and means of egress cannot have occupants move to a less safe location (NFPA 2009), the stair tends to be one of the last components in many complex egress systems."[Hoskins, Bryan L., and James A. Milke (auth.) *Study of Movement Speeds Down Stairs*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2013.]

09. "Stairs Semicircular stairs nestled between walls of foundation skirting is an excellent feature for distinguishing a fairly undistinguished deck. This small, gray dining deck also features natural wood railings with glass inserts, but it’s the stairs that set a truly sophisticated tone. This is why choosing stair style is always a part of a good deck design—they should never be an afterthought Stair configuration goes far in determining how the deck is perceived."[Peterson, Chris *Deck ideas you can use: creative deck designs for every home & yard*. Minneapolis, Minn: Creative Publishing international, 2011.]

10. "The so-called 7/11 stair geometry commonly required in US codes meets the relation 2R+G=635. Templer 15 summarizes a number of research studies of stair geometry and safety. Many such studies were conducted by observing people moving up or down stairs in buildings. Observations in subway or train stations at rush hours provided data for higher population densities."[Bukowski, Richard W. *Emergency Egress From Buildings*. National Institute of Standards and Technology, 2009.]

11. "Other dimensions apply to curved stairs 16 . Other factors relevant to stair safety include lighting, slip resistance, single steps (most codes prohibit flights of fewer than three steps), handrails, and inability to detect the edge of the tread due to lack of contrast. REVIEW OF INTERNATIONAL CODE REQUIREMENTS FOR EGRESS STAIRS The building regulations summarized below are from countries that are widely disbursed and culturally different, and should be representative of any range of methods used to treat egress."[Bukowski, Richard W. *Emergency Egress From Buildings*. National Institute of Standards and Technology, 2009.]

12. "Equation A. 19 is to be used for one story with three flights of stairs. The authors found that speeds decreased as density increased. These observations were made under normal use and most of the observations were at lighter densities since densities nearing the maximum were very rare. They proposed equation for descending stairs was: s= (112 · d ( 4 − 380 · d 3 + 434 · d 2 − 217 · d + 57 · 0. 775 + 0. 44 · e where: s = speed (m/s) d = density (m2/m2) (−0. 39· d ) ) ) ·sin (5. 61 · d − 0. 224 ) 60 (A. 20) 60 Appendix A: Details of Previous Studies Equation A. 20 is valid for descending stairs with d < 0. 92 m2/m2."[Hoskins, Bryan L., and James A. Milke (auth.) *Study of Movement Speeds Down Stairs*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2013.]

13. "A spiral staircase accommodates each stride. That was the point where my initiative and  interest for the stairs arose. Now I knew that the stairs are not purely an aid, but that one  must consider the human who ascends the stairs. Here it came to my aid that I must  always ascend with only one leg. For me, the problems of ascension are exacerbated by a  multiple. I find it much harder than a normal human being who just races up the stairs. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

14. "Die  Scalalogie  unterscheidet  sich  in  geistiger  Weise  von  den  technischen Bauaufnahmen der Treppenforschung. Die  Scalalogie  ist  der  philosophische  Überbau  aller  profanen  Fertigkeiten STAIR PAGE 45 Sr. mielke, how many  stairs have you measured  ¡n your lifetime? an't say. I never counted. I would estimate maybe  oilOO both inside and outside. Hg 1-21 just registered them  ' ¡nCjex cards without counting/ 9 ^  I measured maybe 100  Holland, even more in France. It was wonderful training  body building with stairs. Stairs are seldom described.  !Lre are few books about stairs. . . some older books.  "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

15. "One thing that becomes most apparent here is Mielke's focus on the stair users -  ever present in their multitude. The  stair becomes a palimpsest of observation, which carries complex traces of use: traces of gender, traces of social rank,  traces of craftsmen's rules and transmissions. In the context of his equally disciplined and passionate research, Mielke  coined the term "Scalalogy" -  a term which clearly differentiates itself from basic Stair Research: "Scalalogy is the  science of the interactions between humans and stairs, between foot and step. Since no one could possibly climb a stair  without having contact with its steps, an interdependency is created, between the claims made by the living, and the  reflection of such claims by the material. " "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

16. "Those with short legs can climb the stairs on the  inside of the spiral, while those with long legs have enough  space to climb on the outside of the spiral. "There is  enough space for every length of stride. That was the point  when my initial interest in stairs was awakened. I realized  that stairs were not only the means to climb to another  room, but that one should consider who is climbing the  stairs."[INPUT: stair.pdf]

17. "It is only in modern times and the  1 0 th century that the opening created  by the enclosing stairs, has become  a tool for design. Its outline follows  contemporary and fashionable forms  °f ornamentation. blot only the stairs with its sequence  °f steps, and its balustrades, but also  the 'eye' of the stair received a new  Modern take. Master builders of winding stairs built before the baroque  were not yet ready to address the 'eye'  of the stairs in design terms. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

18. "PAGE 228 STAIR 14. 1996 Spiritual stairs between earth and heaven STAIR PAGE 229 STAIR PAGE 230 15. 1999  Gothic and Renaissance stairs The premise for this research was the idea  that a new feel for life intrinsically had to  produce new products, that alongside the  emergence of a new architecture, new  stairs would arise. The stairs form part of valuable haptic  experiences. Among all the building  components, they reflect most accurately  the habits of its users. An examination of  their original texture and their consequent  changes may allow for conclusions to be  drawn, which can answer the question  raised above regarding the time when  lifestyles changed. In order to obtain the  most convincing results possible, this  general question is broken down into  14 sub-items: "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

19. "The anonym ous equality of its  inhabitants is reflected in the  exterior facad e of their hom es » -*% t PAGE 147 STAIR STAIR PAGE 149 PAGE 150 STAIR STAIR PAGE 151 STAIR PAGE 152 Preface The images intthis book reveal an  enthusiastic attitude to a self-motivated  task, a love for 'his' Viennese stairs^ In  light and in shadow, Peter Tolzer scans  the room, identifies relationships, wnich  are barely visible to ^he distracted stair  user, and caresses every detail withjhis  camera."[INPUT: stair.pdf]

20. "It is therefore necessary to distinguish  between stairs that are acting merely as  mediators, and stairs that have become  autonomous architectural creations. This development of autonomous staircase  architecture is supported by one essential  element in the garden, which does not  have a rising, but a falling tendency: the  water. Stairs and cascades became complementary design factors in garden art. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

21. "1898 KupferstraBe 26 Residence, single-run  flight of wooden stairs  with stringers and a  winding turn halfway,  baluster posts. HarderstraBe 5 Monastery Gnadenthal  scala sancta, straight  limestone stair: 28  steps 10/19 cm, running  width 225 cm. Sacred Stairs (Scalae sanctae) symbolize the  Passion of Christ, where the faithful may  commemorate It by climbing the 28 steps, on  their knees. The model for all imitations is the  staircase on Mount Pilatus palace In lerusalem. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

22. "1372 Prague Veitsdom: southern transept,  diagram showing staggered spiral staircase,  Peter Parler. "Single-run, poly-centric staggered  spiral staircase. " 1538 Nürnberg Albrecht Dürer: "Unterweysung der Messung mit dem Zirckel und Richtscheyt. "  ("Instruction for dimensioning with Circle and  Protractor. ") In the beginning there was an idea,  not a task, and last functionality. Spiral  staircases are at the same time wonder- ful and whimsical constructs. One  must wonder why people would have  the idea to build helical, twisted stairs. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

23. "The benefit (of Scalalogy) is there for all stair-climbing people. If one studies the ascending  behavior of staircase users, recognizes hazards, and is compelled to compare between  energy expenditure and practical use, one learns to understand the human themselves. Friedrich Mielke: "Denkmalpflege und Treppenforschung" (1989), in (ders. , Flrsg. ): Collectaneen 4, Band IX der Scalalogia-Schriften zur internationalen Treppenforschung (Stamsried: Verlag Ernst Vogel, 2001), S. 12. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

24. "Stair Wells and Surrounding Walls Stair flights cannot exist in isolation, and they are always associated with other elements of construction that may require some engineering input. Where the stair passes through a floor the opening needs to be properly formed with a clear structural relationship between the floor and the walls enclosing the stair."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

25. "Friedrich M ieike, C o lle c ta n e e n  II, 1986, "Einleitung," "1. D efinition," 11. STAIR PAGE 127 Scalalogia (Latin Scalae = steps = stair) is a branch  of science that deals w ith the interd ep en dence of  hum ans and stairs. It em erged  from Building Research relating to stairs  and, am ongst other things, investigates the stepping  behavior of stair users, and its resulting consequences  for the construction of staircases of all kinds. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]