Created: 2025-12-31 19:59:54
Origin: searched
Selected: It looks like Sophie; he leans out further but the figure disappears from view before he can identify it. The experience startles him—not least because it plays out in the real and close-up space around the house an aspect of some scenes that he occasionally intuits but never quite pins down when riding the dial’s highest reaches: vague impressions of bodies hovering just beyond the threshold of the visible, and corresponding signals not quite separable from the noise around them—important ones, their recalcitrance all the more frustrating for that reason.[McCarthy, Tom *C*. Knopf, 2010.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Attached at complex but regular intervals around the periphery of the blunt end of the cylinder were gold-plated studs and a staggering array of gemstones, a coral encrustation of garnets, opals, tourmalines, rubies, sapphires and emeralds, a glittering mosaic. Anaconda-thick wires insulated with yellow Teflon crossed from stud to stud in a spiderweb pattern, looping in nouveau curlicues around a massive oval of blue crystal. Theo saw that Griffin was holding his breath, then caught himself and let it out slowly."[Zicree, Marc *Magic Time: Ghostlands*. Harper Voyager, 2005.]

02. "It was interesting. Meanwhile Reena's head shot was making its way around the 107 city. Maris scheduled her for various casting calls, but Reena only showed up at one or two. One day she appeared in the company of half a dozen of her "friends"- those hooded whoevers who'd been gathering around her like a living crust - on page six of the Post, captured from a not very flattering angle as she crammed canapes into her mouth at a movie premiere."[Corporation, Bernadette *Reena Spaulings*. Semiotext(e), 2005.]

03. "It looks like Sophie; he leans out further but the figure disappears from view before he can identify it. The experience startles him—not least because it plays out in the real and close-up space around the house an aspect of some scenes that he occasionally intuits but never quite pins down when riding the dial’s highest reaches: vague impressions of bodies hovering just beyond the threshold of the visible, and corresponding signals not quite separable from the noise around them—important ones, their recalcitrance all the more frustrating for that reason."[McCarthy, Tom *C*. Knopf, 2010.]

04. "And then I slowly mix them around, just the way I like, the things I see and the things I'm thinking, taking a long time and pulling out dreams and books I've read and memories, to make— how can I say it?—a photo, a scene like a souvenir photo. And bit by bit I add to this photo the new scenery I keep seeing, and finally in the photo I have people talking and singing and moving around, right?You know, I have them moving around. And then every time, you know, every time, it gets like this huge sort of palace, there's this thing like a palace in my head, with lots of people getting together and doing lots of things."[Murakami, Ryu *Almost Transparent Blue*. Kodansha USA, 1977.]

05. "Our Lady was singing: Taraboom ti−ay!Taraboom ti−ay!The air was cool. The coldness of the Parisian morning froze his shoulders and fluttered his dress from top to bottom. “You're cold,” said Gorgui looking at him. “And how!” Without anyone's taking notice, Seck's arm went around Our Lady's shoulders. Behind them, Divine arranged her face and gestures so that, upon turning around, they both thought her preoccupied with a very practical inventory."[Genet, Jean *Our Lady of the Flowers*. Faber and Faber, 2004.]

06. "“Transmissions travel. They go somewhere else, and then they’re not here anymore. ” “Ah: you’re behind the times, my child. ” His eyes move from the dial to Serge, bathing him in pity. His left hand starts rising and sinking at an angle, cutting diagonal peaks and troughs in the air. “Imagine a ball bouncing around a dome, and hardly losing any energy in doing so—bouncing around the inside of a sphere and ricocheting off the outer surface of a smaller, solid sphere inset within the larger sphere …” Serge cast his mind back to the tennis court in Berchtesgaden."[McCarthy, Tom *C*. Knopf, 2010.]

07. "This must be Kiki's macambo magic master, I decided. "It was his destiny," Kiki said. "Look at these. "He spread some postcards circa 1913 on the table. The photos showed soldiers hanged from trees and telephone poles with their pants down around their ankles. The pictures were taken from behind. "Pictures get him very hot. He want me pull scarf tight around his neck when he come. "Kiki made a motion of pulling something around his neck. "Jerry's spirit had got into my assistant. Only you can call him out. ""[Burroughs, William S *Cities of the Red Night (Picador)*. Picador, 1982.]

08. "Was she the least aware, during her trek, of how often New York and Jerusalem had interfaced, interpenetrated in her consciousness?Probably not. In any case, it didn't matter now. There before the massive bronze doors of America's most famous monument to Jerusalem's most famous former resident, her attention was nailed, as if to a cross, to the talents of Turn Around Norman. Turn Around Norman always performed in the same spot: on the sidewalk just to the south of the cathedral steps. As near as Ellen Cherry could determine, he was at his post from morning until dusk, daily with the exception of Wednesdays."[Robbins, Tom *Skinny Legs and All*. 2011.]

09. "Or perhaps a glass prison like the ones on the mantel, holding preserved fragments of bones. But looking into the darkness of the bottle was like looking into a geode: Shining, rock-crystal teeth glinted back at her, seared obsidian-black from the fire. Around her throat, something fluttered. Anya’s hand slipped up to the metal collar around her neck. A warm shape inside the metal shifted, peeled away from her skin. Delicate salamander toes unfurled and marched down her shoulder as the metal sizzled and released a living creature."[Bickle, Laura *Sparks*. 2010.]

10. "Maris keeps punching the photographer in the back and telling him Reena is not a bowl of fruit. He is like a cautious rabbit being lured out of his hole, starting to sniff around. He smokes a joint on the roof and comes back with ideas. They converse through nods, glances and improvised hand signals, sometimes breaking the silence with a word: "slumpy" "crass" "idiot" "rad. "Reena stands in her museum guard pose, facing the camera and then the wall. They expose 50 rolls in three hours. They take Polaroids between set-ups and have excited conferences around each one, like generals around a battle plan, pushing on, like people who believe they are getting things done, pushing on."[Corporation, Bernadette *Reena Spaulings*. Semiotext(e), 2005.]

11. "In the process he passed ghost-like through the entire matrix, moving so swiftly that not one ice station, star surfer or black jockey even registered his presence. But the explosion that followed was recorded around the world. A sheet of lightening flared across the matrix, from edge to edge. The very sky solarised as it lit white and then faded. For a nano-second a golden data highway ran, constellation like around the edge of the sphere, as if the matrix had suddenly acquired a mantle."[Grimwood, Jon Courtenay, and Nenad Savic *NeoAddix*. Braguelonne, 2002.]

12. "The legs have atrophied, and it goes around and around in the same place like the hour hand of a clock, feeding on its own excrement. ” “So?” “So isn’t that interesting?” “Not especially. ” So much for him. Disqualified. At the risk of sounding pretentious, let me say I believe the eupcaccia is symbolic of a certain philosophy or way of life: However much you may move around, as long as the motion is circular you haven’t really gone anywhere; the important thing is to maintain a tranquil inner core. Someday, I thought, I’d like to design a logo based on the eupcaccia, for a group flag."[Abe, Kobo *Ark Sakura*. Vintage, 1989.]

13. "Longyearbyen is hemmed in all around by steepsided mountains, but Kinnvika was perfectly positioned for wide open vistas and an enormous sky. Sometimes it was impossible to detect any change between the land and sky, and the amber light spilling out the windows illuminated only a narrow band around the hut. From a distance, the glow of the windows was truly romantic, heart-warming and welcoming, and was visible for miles. Cloudless nights were something else and the heavens shimmered with stars, blinking satellites and aurora."[Tieche, Marie *Champagne and Polar Bears: Romance in the Arctic*. Summersdale Publishers, 2007.]

14. "“I guess, Mr. Draeger, things used to be different around this area. ” Rubbish; the world is always the same. “No. Don’t scowl, Mr. Draeger. Really. I didn’t quite believe it myself . . . ” She knows what I’m thinking!“. . . but I gradually came around. Here. Let me show you something. ” She opens the book; the smell reminds her of the attic. (Oh, the attic. He kissed me good-by and my sore lip . . . )“This is the family history, sort of. I’ve finally got around to reading up on it. ” (I’ve got around to admitting ."[Kesey, Ken, and Charles Bowden (introduction) *Sometimes a Great Notion*. Penguin Books, 2006.]

15. "When the famous photo of Earth taken from space (aboard Apollo 17) was first published, In 1972, it showed the South Pole like this: Publications quickly turned the image round to fit the established convention. Around the world: the equator The first person to sail around the globe was Juan Sebastián del Cano, who took credit after his captain, Ferdinand Magellan, was killed en route. The voyage lasted almost 3 years, from 1519 to 1522."[Holmes, Nigel *The Lonely Planet Book of Everything: A Visual Guide to Travel and the World*. Lonely Planet, 2014.]

16. "And waited. And when the angle and composition of the dying light was to his satisfaction, the stick commenced to twirl. For some reason, each of the others, watching him, thought briefly of Turn Around Norman, although Norman obviously was a slow train to Leadville compared to the rapidly spinning stick. Around and around the ancient talisman twirled, twirling in a frenzy, like a blind man's cane in a whirlpool, like the bit of a diamond cutter's drill. They watched. And watched. And grew anxious. But at last a shaving began to smolder."[Robbins, Tom *Skinny Legs and All*. 2011.]

17. "“Gabriel is variously depicted as male or female, but he/she/it is a genderless force. Sex is an illusion designed to allow us to relate and interact with them better. ” Anya’s gaze crossed Brian’s, and she blushed. “So where did the eggs come from?I haven’t seen any other salamanders crawling around. ” “Parthenogenesis. ” Ciro licked his fork. “It’s actually relatively common in the natural world. Some species of bees, sharks, and lizards reproduce asexually when a suitable mate isn’t around."[Bickle, Laura *Sparks*. 2010.]

18. "They were so close. So goddamn close. “And isn’t it true,” the repellently familiar voice came from behind them, “how all things that come around do so surely go around?” ««—»» Anton Grosevoir hunched on the ground. His knees were spread and his arms hung between them, fingers brushing the snow. With his stubby arms and fat legs he looked for all the world like a bullfrog coiled to hop. He wore a vanilla suit, which remained as clean and unrumpled as the day they’d first met."[Lestewka, Patrick *The Preserve*. CreateSpace, 2010.]

19. "I kept hearing the words “Look!Look!” The children wound their way around ﬂickering garden paths, across miniature walk bridges spanning a manicured stream, through sheltered courtyards. Fairy-tale scenes were arranged in diorama at each bend in the path. Many of the children chattered noisily. Some darted out of line. A pair of children in snow jackets left the tour to fool around in a garbage can. A tiny child, hand engulfed by a driver’s beefy palm, stood transﬁxed in the face of it all, head tipped back, mouth parted, eyes wide."[Perry, Michael *Off Main Street: Barnstormers, Prophets & Gatemouth's Gator: Essays*. 2005.]

20. "Static. )Dagbolt: Is it possible for a severed penis to have an orgasm?I th— (Static. )Dagbolt: —around me. I repeat, all around me. Squirming things. They—I say, does anyone know if— (Dagbolt, screaming and cursing, then just screaming. Sound of toothless old man again. )Transmission ends. The Gorbachev/Truman exploded three seconds later. The extrusion from the rough ball nicknamed Star Wormwood had been observed from better than three hundred telescopes earthside during the short and rather pitiful conflict."[Skipp, John, and Craig Spector *Book of the Dead*. Mark V Ziesing, 1990.]

21. "For example—well, it always seems like there's no dissension around here, no arguments, no conflict, in spite of all these different and in some cases weird personalities ricocheting around and rapping and carrying on. Yet that is onl y an illusion. It is just that they don't have it out with one another. Instead, they take it to Kesey, all of them forever waiting for Kesey, circling around him."[Wolfe, Tom *The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test*. Bantam, 1999.]

22. "Almost unbearably tender and receptive. “And Neil Young came onstage singing ‘Like a Hurricane’ with monstrous industrial fans blowing out into the audience. A big wind inside the auditorium. From where we were sitting, it looked like the music was playing him. What those industrial fans did to the music, it was like the sound was coming from all around him, channeling into his guitar through his fingers. His skinny frame up there dancing around at the edge of the stage like a puppet hooked to a celestial current."[Gander, Forrest *The Trace*. New Directions Publishing, 2014.]

23. "Then one dog comes around from behind the bus with a collar and short length of rope around its neck. I am in Madrid and go to a place of many cats and dogs to adopt a kitten. It is a small black kitten. There are clouds of flies around and I take the kitten and a blanket to shut out the flies. The breakfast dreams have only started in the last six years or so, since I became preoccupied with the Land of the Dead. The dreams refer not only to breakfast but to difficulty in obtaining any sort of food, except for strange outlandish sweet dishes that are eaten more with the eyes than with the mouth."[Burroughs, William S *My Education: a Book of Dreams*. Penguin Books Ltd, 2012.]

24. "Onya knelt before the pile and began making her final preparations. Onya drew a pentacle on the floor with chalk. She traced the outline of the five-pointed star seven times, pausing to whisper something under her breath with each pass. Around the simple design, Onya chalked intricate patterns, perhaps letters in a language Davik didn’t understand. Onya scribbled swirls and spirals between two concentric rings around the great star. They seemed to squirm and writhe of their own volition. Next, she placed a black candle at each of the pentacle’s five points."[Amber Fallon [Fallon, Amber] *TV Dinners from Hell*. Fresh Pulp Press, 2017.]

25. "Somerset Maugham Tranquilizing murmur [of a voice] like the music of a dream —Elinor Wylie Tranquilly like the rise and fall of sand dunes —Yukio Mishima < PECULIARITY THE SIMILES [Different types of people] all mixed up like vegetables in soup —Flannery O’Connor All the hurtful ugly things that happened between us got somehow wrapped around the sweetness like a hard rind around a delicate rare fruit."[Sommer, E. *Similes Dictionary*. Visible Ink Press, 2013.]