Created: 2026-01-06 15:27:48
Origin: suggested
Selected: This surface reverberated inside me. I felt a poetic drive rising as I began to experience resonances, sentimental repercussions and reminders of my past. 16 April 01, 2003 – Bogotá. Santafé Hospital. Waiting, staring silently at the neon lights:17 A surgery room is always an uneasy place, marked by anxiety, nervousness, and uneasiness. Waiting for a surgeon to come while being left in a hospital bed. Light after light above me. Bright white light and the awkward smell of cleanliness. I kept staring insistently at the huge intervention tools over a table.[El-Bizri, Nader *Recto Verso: Redefining the Sketchbook*. New ed. Aldershot: Ashgate Pub. Group, 2013.]

--- Context List ---
01. "This surface reverberated inside me. I felt a poetic drive rising as I began to experience resonances, sentimental repercussions and reminders of my past. 16 April 01, 2003 – Bogotá. Santafé Hospital. Waiting, staring silently at the neon lights:17 A surgery room is always an uneasy place, marked by anxiety, nervousness, and uneasiness. Waiting for a surgeon to come while being left in a hospital bed. Light after light above me. Bright white light and the awkward smell of cleanliness. I kept staring insistently at the huge intervention tools over a table."[El-Bizri, Nader *Recto Verso: Redefining the Sketchbook*. New ed. Aldershot: Ashgate Pub. Group, 2013.]

02. "The play of concentrated light rays and reflections keeps one perceptually alert, not unlike the light-shadow formations of photograms. At the same time, the opaque windowpane and wooden elements prevent the room from dematerializing into illusionistic light effects and “nihilistic nothingness. ” The conspicuous materiality of the white paper of the photograph, in turn, materially grounds the light play as an imprint, to suggest emptiness as material relationships. Yamawaki in this way renegotiates the function of the transitional space—here the genkan—traditionally a space of introspection or formal deference, and the Bauhaus’ pursuit of “perceptual training” and light-shadow play."[Toth, Edit *Design and Visual Culture from the Bauhaus to Contemporary Art: Optical Deconstructions*. Routledge, 2018.]

03. "The little lamp glows in the brilliant three-o’clock-in-the-afternoon light of this motionless, end-of-summer day. Fascinated by this challenge to our common sense – what is there less clear than light?– our glance wanders over the landscape: in the background, wooded hills, green and reddish; lower down, a small lake and a light mist on the lake. An inevitably blue sky. Two or three little clouds, also inevitably white. On the far right, among some rocks, a waterfall catches the light. Stillness: a portion of time held motionless."[Perez-Gomez, Alberto, and Stephen Parcell *Chora 4: Intervals in the Philosophy of Architecture*. Mcgill Queens Univ Pr, 2004.]

04. "“The concept of the disappearing book is older”: As Schwenger 1994 proposes and Begos has conﬁrmed, Agrippa’s self-consumption was inspired by Maurice Blanchot’s and Stéphane Mallarmé’s concepts of disappearing books-in-crisis. Ashbaugh’s concept of page elements erased by exposure to light had been anticipated by Keith Smith in 1974 in his plan for Book Number 50, a “self-sacriﬁcing book. ” Pages of the book (never constructed) would be made of ﬁlm positives developed without ﬁx, bound and presented in a light-tight box."[Harpold, Terry *Ex-foliations: Reading Machines and the Upgrade Path (Electronic Mediations)*. 2008.]

05. "The interaction of the closely positioned ten spotlights with the metallic and glass surfaces when seen up close within the Light Prop’s housing, however, created a more potent and aggressive emphasis on perception as pure sensory phenomena than a jazz orchestra and night club would have. We encounter these aggressive and often uncomfortable mobile light effects, as well as the mechanized movement, in city traffic. Such effects include the reflection of the headlights of an automobile on a shop window or the constant blinking of an electric sign, itself a variety of a light display machine or mechanism that Moholy-Nagy related to the Light Prop. 29 The Light Prop and photograms as condensers of various light phenomena thus bring us to Moholy-Nagy’s technique of breaking down and transcribing the properties of various manifestations of modern life to engender a multifaceted Spielraum."[Toth, Edit *Design and Visual Culture from the Bauhaus to Contemporary Art: Optical Deconstructions*. Routledge, 2018.]

06. "The visitor is welcomed immediately into a big, lively hall. There is a roof light along the back, so that the wall is lit even on a dull day and artificial light is seldom needed, and, when the sun comes out, the wall is illuminated by changing shafts of light (see Figure 1. 9. 7). The timber columns have entasis: a slight curving inwards towards the top, which makes them feel a little stronger and corrects the somewhat crude appearance of columns with parallel sides."[Awan, Nishat, Peter Blundell-Jones, and Mark Meagher *Architecture and movement : the dynamic experience of buildings and landscapes*. London and New York: Routledge, 2015.]

07. "The unattributed domestic advice piece, “[ ]s for Using Books” (the first word is illegible), is a list of rules for the physical care of books: “Never hold a book near a fire. Never drop a book upon the floor. . . . Never turn down corners of leaves. . . . Never write upon a paper laid upon the leaves of an open book, as the pencil or pen point will either scratch or cut the book leaves. ”25 The clipping hints that despite having in one sense destroyed a book, the maker valued books—prized them as a symbol of qualities worth preserving and saw the binding and the rest of the physical book as valuable."[Gitelman, Lisa, and Geoffrey B. Pingree *New Media, 1740-1915*. The MIT Press, 2003.]

08. "White Noise / White Light was an outgrowth of this project, but turned on its side—literally as well as conceptually. The competition design brief requested that the proposed installations along a designated route in Athens record and play back the sounds of the city to visitors. In response, I proposed collecting all the sounds of the city and playing it back in such a way that one experienced a field of white noise. The idea was to create a kind of absence of sound through sound. What I found interesting about the concept of whiteness— white light being the full spectrum of color and white noise being the full spectrum of frequencies without differentiation—was the idea of total accumulation and the relationship of the multiple to the singular."[Kedan, Elite, Jon Dreyfous, and Craig Mutter *Provisional: Emerging Modes of Architectural Practice USA*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2009.]

09. "Perhaps, we should be least afraid of light, be it optical fibre, or even light without the source of light. After all, optical fibre is only a transparent medium for transmission made to a diameter slightly thicker than that of a human hair. Light travels down a fibre-optic cable by repeatedly bouncing off the walls as a result of the continuous decrease in the refractive index, a marvel probably not foreseen by Descartes in his “Treatise on Light”. Above all, therefore, we should be afraid of a double informant, a police spy disguised in the form of wearable technologies."[Kong, Mário S. Ming, Maria do Rosário Monteiro, and Maria João Pereira Neto *Progress(es), theories and practices : proceedings of the 3rd International Multidisciplinary Congress (PHI 2017-Progress(es)-Theories and practices), Bari, Italy, October 4-7, 2017*. Bari, Italy): CRC Press, 2018.]

10. "“Evening Post!” Suddenly the boy’s mouth turned red. He stuck out a red tongue to catch wine being poured from an enormous neon bottle across the street. Red streets, green streets, blue streets, purple streets. . . . City clad in strong colors!Dancing neon light—multi-colored waves, scintillating waves, colorless waves—a sky filled with color. The sky now had Montage Landscapes 167 everything: wine, cigarettes, high-heels, clock-towers. . . . Try White Horse Whisky!Chesterfield cigarettes are kind to a smoker’s throat."[Schaefer, William *Shadow Modernism: Photography, Writing, and Space in Shanghai, 1925–1937*. Duke University Press Books, 2017.]

11. "I waded into the great hall. That and the light. The light of skylights at 5pm winter. The light of a translucent skylight at that hour. Fatiguing as the air. Not bothering with the catalogue at the end of a gray transparent arm, I leaned my weight to the right. Three steps and I was into the thickening light of a great arched hall full of has gone awry."[Krauss, editors Rosalind, and Annette Michelson *October journal No.3 Spring (1977)*. The MIT Press, 1977.]

12. "The condition is exacerbated when the building’s windows are glazed in tinted glass. Light and colour God created the heavens and the Earth in the very beginning…(and) God said ‘Let there be light’13 Light is one. It only appears multiple and diverse because of the intervention of darkness which lacks intrinsic reality. Without light there is pure nothingness. 14 0 — embedding, entryway, passageway, interior, converted, enter 0 — converted, upstairs, hall, embedding, entryway, interior 15 16 - - - "[INPUT: WritingImagesPicturingText_JBesems_Small300dpi.pdf]

13. "Turning right up a short passage, the Holocaust void is entered only through a heavy concrete door, which is then closed. The unheated, uncooled space inside is shaped in the sharp wedge by 27 feet high unadorned concrete walls. You can just make out the sounds of the city outside as it goes about its business. Above, a thin strip of white light, reflected from some unseeable source, rims the top of one wall. An air vent?Divine Light?34 Another passage, signed with the names of places to which Jews were exiled or emigrated, leads out into the E. T. A. Hoffmann Garden."[Hartoonian, Gevork *Walter Benjamin and architecture*. London, New York: Routledge, 2010.]

14. "68–80. Chapter 3 Porosity at the edge Working through Walter Benjamin’s ‘Naples’ Andrew Benjamin What is that identifies a city?Where is the feeling or sense of that identity located?Could that sense of identity – no matter how it was discovered – be generalized?The encounter with a city endures within attempts to articulate that experience within writing. Equally, an encounter with a specific city – once it admits the possibility of generalization – may become productive within design. Walter Benjamin continued to work through the city. 1 The modern and the urban coincide."[Hartoonian, Gevork *Walter Benjamin and architecture*. London, New York: Routledge, 2010.]

15. "A book requires that light be cast on it, and ideally, this light would filter through a window. Video is presented via light through a monitor screen, but monitors don’t mix well with light streaming through windows."[(auth.), Robert Kirkbride, and Robert Kirkbride (eds.) *Geometries of Rhetoric*. Birkhäuser Basel, 2010.]

16. "In 1983, 388 classes and 309 student group gatherings made use of the library’s video resources [Shapiro 1984a]. These examples demonstrate that, rather than selecting their films and videos and “go[ing] to the light,” the filmgoers met in Rockefeller Hall, while the video watchers gathered in an adaptable fourth-floor seminar room. The same qualities that make the arcades ideal for reading a book make it unsuitable for watching a film. These different media have different relationships to light – and although Huxtable regards Kahn’s design as having a “pre-McLuhan quality,” McLuhan’s distinction between “lightthrough” and “light-on” media might help to explain the functionality of the building’s 410 Shannon Mattern – Geometries of Reading, Light of Learning: Louis I. Kahn’s Library at Phillips Exeter geometries and materiality for reading and watching [McLuhan 1994: 129]."[(auth.), Robert Kirkbride, and Robert Kirkbride (eds.) *Geometries of Rhetoric*. Birkhäuser Basel, 2010.]

17. "(Material casts shadows, shadows belong to light). The different connections between Light, Shade, and Silence are constant in major artistic endeavours – architecture, sculpture, painting, and design."[Kong, Mário S. Ming, Maria do Rosário Monteiro, and Maria João Pereira Neto *Progress(es), theories and practices : proceedings of the 3rd International Multidisciplinary Congress (PHI 2017-Progress(es)-Theories and practices), Bari, Italy, October 4-7, 2017*. Bari, Italy): CRC Press, 2018.]

18. "Page 147 11— Jennifer Steinkamp: Light in Space Enter a room. All is darkness, except for a luminous play of color on the floor. There is no way to resist walking into the light; the projection plays down like a sunset devised by a technologized god. Skin becomes a canvas, as your shadow is transformed into a pictorial element. Untitled (1993) The sound of gagging penetrates the air, growing in volume as you ascend the staircase."[Lunenfeld, Peter *Snap to grid : a user’s guide to digital arts, media, and cultures*. London, Cambridge, (Mass.): The MIT Press, 2001.]

19. "Nite_Aura’s interior is covered with long, fiber optic strands that emit pin points of light. When brushed or otherwise manipulated, these pin points create fluctuating, swirling, ethereal shapes of moving light. In addition, the sound, created by Greg Corness,13 responds to users’ movements. The inside of the installation thus acts as a metaphor for private space, connecting the seemingly infinite space of light with finite being. Like an HMD or a CAVE, most of the world outside of Nite_Aura a is occluded."[(auth.), Gerald Bast, Roy Ascott, Gerald Bast, Wolfgang Fiel, Margarete Jahrmann, and Ruth Schnell (eds.) *New Realities: Being Syncretic*. Springer Vienna, 2009.]

20. "A latent sense of movement impresses itself upon the viewer and this combines with the religious context to create a sense of internal emotion and emotionalization. 76 Aspects of Mediatecture A walk in a light-lled winter landscape makes clear the extent to which one can be sensitized by the everchanging relationship between light and movement. With each ever-changing twinkling and shimmering of each snowy surface the senses are sharpened. The teasing light and its multiple reections combine to draw the intense attention of the viewer who looks rst this way and then that as he loses himself in the bewitching beauty of the surfaces."[(auth.), Bruno Schindler, and Christoph Kronhagel (eds.) *Mediatecture: The Design of Medially Augmented Spaces*. Springer Vienna, 2010.]

21. "This representation, however, is misleading at one point at least. Long-wave light in the range just under 700 nanometers actually looks red, short-wave light around 450 nanometers blue, light in the range of 530 nanometers green, etc. Yet, the inverse of this proposition is not correct. The sensation “red” is not solely triggered by narrow-banded light on the long-wave end of the visible spectrum."[(auth.), Bruno Schindler, and Christoph Kronhagel (eds.) *Mediatecture: The Design of Medially Augmented Spaces*. Springer Vienna, 2010.]

22. "USHER 2: The Umwelt of the tick begins with a burst of light felt by the skin. [A hot white light flashes from the screen] The feel of light on the skin signals the action: climbing. [USHER 1 starts climbing] Some Audience members, especially those clustered directly under the screen, follow the instructions – legs on chairs, arms flailing, fingers folding, lids feeling, chins reaching . . . USHER 1: The second affect is smell, the odour of butyric acid acts as a signal. Now, the word ‘butter’ is an etymological cousin of ‘butyric’."[(Editor), Katja Hilevaara, and Emily Orley (Editor) *The Creative Critic: Writing as/about Practice*. Routledge, 2018.]

23. "The gaze according to Maurice Blanchot is that possibility of seeing which remains covered up by vision. The gaze opens the possibility of seeing what Blanchot calls the light lying within the darkness. It is not the light of the dialectic of light/dark, but it is the light of an otherness, which lies hidden within presence. It is the capacity to see this otherness which is repressed by vision. The looking back, the gaze, exposes architecture to another light, one which could not have been seen before."[Carpo, Mario *The digital turn in architecture 1990-2010*. Chichester: Wiley, 2012.]

24. "As “auxiliary brightness,” ornament, Alberti would have us assume, adds its light to the light of beauty and “improves” or complements its intensity making beauty shine ever brighter in the foreground amid a concealed and shadowy background. What ornament is said to improve, however, does not precede it. If ornament adds its light to the light of beauty, it adds itself to an undifferentiated, unperceived light before the addition. It is, after all, precisely the absence of this light that mandates addition."[Ameri, Amir H *The Architecture of the Illusive Distance*. New edition. Ashgate Pub Co, 2015.]

25. "The abstracted and ubiquitous data from the larger population is connected to the behaviors of MIMMI and visualized for a local audience. In this sense, MIMMI merged the discussions of digital technology and a densifying urban environment, ultimately creating a place to gather and see the city in a new way, while at the same time exploring shifting cultures and responsibilities. To generate the city’s mood, MIMMI sourced information from local Twitter feeds and used textual analysis to detect the emotion of those 175 6581 RESPONSIVE LANDSCAPES-V_246 x 189 21/10/2015 13:44 Page 176 Figure 07. 03 Night view of inflatable misting, MIMMI, Invivia and Urbain DRC, 2013 Figure 07. 04 Melancholy evening mood, MIMMI, Invivia and Urbain DRC, 2013 tweets."[Cantrell, Bradley E, and Justine Holzman *Responsive Landscapes: Strategies for Responsive Technologies in Landscape Architecture*. Routledge, 2015.]