Created: 2025-12-30 01:34:51
Origin: searched
Selected: To block out an undesirable view, use a stained glass panel the size of the window; to focus attention on the view, select a rectangular or curved stained glass frame around clear glass. Clear glass mixed at random with colored glass in a single panel gives a feeling of depth . A glass bird or foliage pattern complements house plants or enriches a garden view. If your window has many small panes, consider replacing only a pane or two for a colorful splash of light. For a room with a double-hung or horizontally sliding window, you can create an especially rich feeling by designing each sash with different colors.[*Windows & skylights* Menlo Park, Calif: Lane Pub. Co, 1982.]

--- Context List ---
01. "The polished surface receives the gaze and, through its invisibility, reﬂects ﬂeeting glimpses of the “other,” much like a mirror. Even with perfectly clear glass, the extent of this view is bounded because most glass panels require a frame. The neutral frame isolates the glass and what may be seen through it from its context (Ortega y Gassett 1986: 24). The frame turns the view into a “picture” and alters the nature of the spectator’s gaze. In an essay called “Fear of Glass: The Barcelona Pavilion,” the author says that glass allows eternal special currents to ﬂow through space (Quetglas 2001)."[Yglesias, Caren *The Innovative Use of Materials in Architecture and Landscape Architecture: History, Theory and Performance*. McFarland, 2014.]

02. "The more this reformation is prevented, the clearer the glass. This ability to be formed and reformed opens the material to technical manipulation and innovation. Fundamentally, glass is hard, yet fragile and brittle. Most glass breaks upon impact into many pieces with sharp edges, and the sense of danger from cutting is never far from the human perception of and response to glass. Glass breaks like ceramic tiles, whose tiny surface imperfections likewise make them vulnerable to shattering upon impact."[Yglesias, Caren *The Innovative Use of Materials in Architecture and Landscape Architecture: History, Theory and Performance*. McFarland, 2014.]

03. "In southern climates, double-glazed tinted glass (C) reduces heat transfer. Tempered (or “safety”) glass (D) has extra strength for use in patio doors, storm doors, and large picture windows. Whatever the type of framing or glass in your window, the pane can be one piece or divided into smaller panes by muntins. True muntins actually hold individual pieces of glass, while snap-on muntins can be easily removed for cleaning the glass or to change the look of the window. Window & Door Inspection Tips Here are a few things to look for when you inspect your new window or door before you begin the installation: • Hardware is sturdy and all pieces are present."[coll. *The Complete Guide to Windows & Entryways*. Cool Springs Press, 2008.]

04. "Clear glass is seen largely through reflections from its surface, which can render the glass conditionally opaque. In the absence of reflections, the glass becomes transparent. Designers intent on achieving maximum transparency in a glass facade have employed antireflective coatings with considerable success, minimizing reflections and thereby enhancing transparency. The pursuit of transparency in the building envelope has driven many of the developments in glass and glass facade technology in recent decades."[Patterson, Mic *Structural Glass Facades and Enclosures : a Vocabulary of Transparency*. Chichester: John Wiley & Sons, 2011.]

05. "To block out an undesirable view, use a stained glass panel the size of the window; to focus attention on the view, select a rectangular or curved stained glass frame around clear glass. Clear glass mixed at random with colored glass in a single panel gives a feeling of depth . A glass bird or foliage pattern complements house plants or enriches a garden view. If your window has many small panes, consider replacing only a pane or two for a colorful splash of light. For a room with a double-hung or horizontally sliding window, you can create an especially rich feeling by designing each sash with different colors."[*Windows & skylights* Menlo Park, Calif: Lane Pub. Co, 1982.]

06. "Two sheets of glass with a transparent plastic sheet sandwiched between them to form a pane resistant to shattering. Sheet Glass Sec window glass. Shim A small wedgelike device, typically a piece of an exterior wood shingle, which tightens the fit between two separate building elements. Show Window A window for display of goods. See also cabinet window. Shutter A frame assembly mounted on a window supporting a panel that shuts out light or view from a window opening; originally for protection, then decoration, and now energy conservation."[York, New *Repairing Old and Historic Windows: A Manual for Architects and Homeowners*. Washington, D.C: Preservation Press, National Trust for Historic Preservation, 1992.]

07. "Glass as Window The emergence of glass in window applications is attributed to the Roman imperial period. Window glass was first used in isolated applications, such as in the public baths to reduce air drafts. Early window glass was rather crude and unevenly translucent, as the techniques for producing transparent glass products were yet to be developed. Glass at this point was not about providing transparency or a view; it was most likely used for security and insulation from the exterior environment and for natural lighting."[Patterson, Mic *Structural Glass Facades and Enclosures : a Vocabulary of Transparency*. Chichester: John Wiley & Sons, 2011.]

08. "In plane deformation of the window frames is the primary cause of window glass damage. The deformation is accommodated by two consecutive mechanisms: rigid body motion of the glass panel in the window frame & the diagonal shortening of the glass under in-plane compressive forces. The first mechanism depends on the clearance between the glass panel & window frame and resiliency of the sealant material. The second mechanism is related to the mechanical properties of the glass panel. For greater safety from earthquakes: • The edges of glass panels shall have adequate clearance from the frame (Top: 14 mm; Bottom: 10mm; left/right 12mm)."[Garg, N.K. *Guidelines for Use of Glass in Buildings*. New Age Publications (Academic), 2007.]

09. "Glass that's used for panes in windows and doors is typically single or double strength and Ya inch thick or less. In small picture windows and glass doors, the glass is usually Y4 inch thick, though the larger the window, the thicker the glass must be. Let a professional determine the thickness required for a large window; if the glass isn't thick enough, strong winds may shat ter it . Insulating glass is an as sembly of two or three panes of glass separated by moisture-free air space. A drying agent in the frame surrounding the glass keeps the air dry; this reduces the possibility of condensation-or ice in freezing climates-forming, obscuring the view and reducing the insulating qualities."[*Windows & skylights* Menlo Park, Calif: Lane Pub. Co, 1982.]

10. "Instead of being fitted in a frame, the glass is fixed to a support, which in turn is attached to a structural element of the building, the tightness of the whole system being obtained by a silicone seal. The glass is fixed on its support by means of a silicone seal along the edges of the internal surface (fig. 5. 4). This technique can be used with almost all types of glass, including insulating glass units. The glazing is prepared in a factory by mounting a structural seal support frame onto the glass, complete with appropriate setting blocks, location blocks and distance pieces."[Garg, N.K. *Guidelines for Use of Glass in Buildings*. New Age Publications (Academic), 2007.]

11. "the glass Mottled and dots that resemble the appearance of bacteria or amoe- microscope. Textured glass is perfect for imitating waves on water, or drapery folds. Fractured glass consists of a sheet of glass with irregular chips of broken glass melted into the surface, details of a one color in in reflected light (e. g. , transmitted light dows and lamps, is and is used to imitate the landscape seen at great distance, such as a (e. g. , giving switched on and off. blood them murky green) and red). Dichroic glass split personalities a little blurry forest. Dichroic glass has completely different color adds great mystery to win- as day turns to night or a lamp In 1901 Tiffany was chosen to create the adornments ebrations, for the Yale Bicentennial cel- and he responded with mix that included waving flags, a joyful glowing Japanese lanterns, and the decorative use Many who of evergreens. festivities most attended the congratulated Tiffany on his effective decoration ever, and in 1903 Yale awarded him an honorarv was Master of Arts degree."[Warmus, William *The Essential Louis Comfort Tiffany*. Harry N. Abrams, Inc., 2001.]

12. "Performance data are given in Appendix A1. 1, with typical total window U-values for different frame materials. The window frame must also be designed to provide adequate support for the weight of glass required. Although not strictly a daylighting matter, it can have an indirect influence on the provision of daylight because of the obstructing nature of framing sections. In non-domestic buildings there is an increasing use of structural glazing which does not employ frames. The glazing is usually arranged in an array of panes of toughened glass held together by specially designed corner plates bolted through the glass or by suitable adhesives."[Engineers, Chartered Institute of Building Services *Daylighting and Window Design (CIBSE Lighting Guide)*. Chartered Institution of Building Services Engineers, 1999.]

13. "Traditional window glass design methodology assumes that loads act quasi-statically with durations measured in seconds or longer periods. When an explosion occurs, air blast pressure loads window glass lites dynamically over very short time durations. Figure 2 shows the approximate relationship between stress duration and stress magnitude at which fracture occurs for annealed window glass [13]. Figure 2 indicates 162 THE USE OF GLASS IN BUILDINGS that under short duration loading the stress at which fracture is initiated, which somehow correlates with window glass load resistance, increases dramatically."[Valerie L. Block, editor *The Use of Glass in Buildings: 1st Symposium on the Use of Glass in Buildings, 2002, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania (ASTM Special Technical Publication, 1434)*. 2002.]

14. "1923 Lake Geneva from Le Corbusier's 11 meter horizontal window at Villa le Lac, built for his mother. PAGE 52 WINDOW W I N D O W  S H O P P IN G "As glass has become clearer and  clearer and cheaper and cheaper from  age to age, about all that has been  done with it architecturally is to fill up  the same opening that opaque glass  screened before, with a perfect visibility now, except for the use to which  the shop-man demands that it be put.  The shop! That is almost where glass  has come into its own. " — Frank Lloyd Wright, "The Meaning  of Materials: Glass," The Architectural  Record, Duly 1928. "[INPUT: window.pdf]

15. "1210-15 produce small tiles of glass, bonded a pattern that reflects but Although invention, stained glass owes The arrangement to a base structure such as stone, to does not transmit light. The process of making transparent stained glass matured during the Middle Ages, when the windows were great stained-glass first most stained glass served century, change in a religious purpose, but Tiffany helped to new genres of stained glass, such as landscapes, windows made up the vast majority of Tiffany's commis- stained glass."[Warmus, William *The Essential Louis Comfort Tiffany*. Harry N. Abrams, Inc., 2001.]

16. "4. NEW  APPROACHES TO  PROFILES SH O U LD  NO T BE PURSUED Ease of machining offers a wide range of options for profiles; experiments  in form lead to commonly encountered defects. 5. THE STRONGER THE FRAME, THE BIGGER THE W IN D O W The strength of the material enables larger panel windows. Slim profiles have  prominent fittings and reduce the proportion of glass-to-frame size. Steel,  with high torsion and bending stiffness, allows for more slender frames. 6. GLASS MUST NOT TOUCH FRAME Support packers are necessary between the panes and the frame to transfer weight  evenly. The glass pane cannot have direct contact with the frame. Weight of the  glass must be distributed by the bottom sash hinge. The support packers must be  positioned so that the sash frame cannot deform. Packers are 80-100mm long and  2mm wider than the glass. "[INPUT: window.pdf]

17. "Obscure Glass Also visionproof glass. Any textured glass (frosted, etched, fluted, or ground) used for privacy, light diffusion, or decorative effects. Ogee Curve Also ogee molding. A reverse flex curve commonly found in window moldings or trim. Operator A crank-operated device for opening and closing casement or jalousie windows. Overhead Balance See sash balance. Palladian Window A tripartite window characterized by a large arched middle window flanked by rectangular windows. Pane A sheet of glass for glazing a window."[York, New *Repairing Old and Historic Windows: A Manual for Architects and Homeowners*. Washington, D.C: Preservation Press, National Trust for Historic Preservation, 1992.]

18. "Also, this type of glass can allow the interior temperature to rise to a higher level before failing as compared to the common single-pane glass windows, and can increase the chance of a flashover as well as subject interior personnel to higher levels of heat. Although not a type of glass, there are numerous glass coatings or films that can be added to existing glass for energy conservation, noise reduction, and protection from falling glass in earthquakes."[Dodson, David W., and John Mittendorf *The Art of Reading Buildings*. PennWell,Fire Engineering Books, 2014.]

19. "Glass windows will therefore withstand the action of atmospheric agencies for many years. Under certain conditions, however, glass will be corroded and it is not correct 22 CHEMICAL DURABILITY to speak of glass as a completely insoluble material. Glass is readily dissolved by hydrofluoric acid, which is used in the etching of glass. Its chemical resistance towards the attack of most other acids is very good, but alkaline solutions, on the other hand, attack glass quite severely. By decreasing the alkali content of a glass its chemical durability is improved."[(auth.), Rune Persson *Flat Glass Technology*. Springer US, 1969.]

20. "Beveled Glass Doors Stained glass window Glass blocks are used in a window that separates rooms. Block Glass Window Panel Try glass blocks instead of a room screen or etched glass to create a view. This option is definitely a unique way to set your windows apart from the average, while still providing privacy. [page 95] Windows Treatments Made Simple 11. 5 Matching Hard Window Treatments to Your Decorating Style!Traditional – Go with fabric textured horizontal blinds or balloon, pleated or fabric roll shades."[M.K., Makridakis, and Holland M. *How to Create Rooms of Radiance. Windows Treatments Made Simple*. 2003.]

21. "See Modern Structures, p. 78. Exposed-frame curtain wall A type of glass curtain wall. Unlike the hidden-frame iteration, here the frame stands proud of the glass surface and may also include some additional trim. Although the frame is highlighted, its only structural function is to attach the glass panes to the supporting frame behind. See Walls and Surfaces, p. 99. F Fanlight A semicircular or elongated semicircular window sitting above a door but contained within the overall surround, with radiating glazing bars in the form of a fan or sunburst."[Hopkins, Owen *Reading Architecture  A Visual Lexicon*. Laurence King, 2012.]

22. "In general, it can be said that the transmittance through sheet glass, plate glass and float glass is approximately 85-90% in the visible region of the spectrum. Rough cast glass transmits approximately 80% and ornamental glass 70--85 %, depending on the pattern. By special mechanical or chemical surface treatments it is possible to obtain glass giving reduced glare effects from lighting points. The surfaces of the glass are lightly textured and therefore give a 'diffuse' reflection."[(auth.), Rune Persson *Flat Glass Technology*. Springer US, 1969.]

23. "An alternative to the all-glass structure is the cladding of conventional structures or walls in opaque rainscreens. This method uses screen printed glass which is typically silicone bonded to a backing frame, then hooked on, or fixed back to, a carrier frame behind. This use of glass as an external rainscreen allows the void between the glass and the external face of the backing wall to have lighting, creating a glow to an otherwise opaque or utilitarian facade, with the benefit of creating some lighting for safety of users around the building."[Watts, Andrew *Modern Construction Handbook*. Ambra Verlag, 2013.]

24. "Where glass blocks are used, they are set into a supporting frame of steel or concrete with reinforcing bars. Each block is individually supported, which has the effect of limiting the effects of lightness and transparency. Economic spans for glass sheet are currently in widths of one metre, but panel sizes of 1200mm by 2600mm can be achieved, at significantly higher cost. The glass is usually bedded within the frame on a flexible, rubber-based material such as neoprene or EPDM, or alternatively bonded to the frame with silicone."[Watts, Andrew *Modern Construction Handbook*. Ambra Verlag, 2013.]

25. "The challenge is how to provide enough space in the existing frame to accommodate thicker glass and a silicone anchor bead to affix the glass to the frame. This is accomplished by utilizing an aluminum frame adaptor that fits into the space where the existing glass was and provides a wider glass pocket for the new glass and silicone. The adaptor decreases the daylight area of the glass by about 3 mm all the way around, but is not noticeable if painted the same color as the existing frame 126 3"HE USE OF GLASS IN BUILDINGS material, Figure 2 shows examples of impact resistant glazing systems with and without the adapter."[Valerie L. Block, editor *The Use of Glass in Buildings: 1st Symposium on the Use of Glass in Buildings, 2002, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania (ASTM Special Technical Publication, 1434)*. 2002.]