Created: 2025-12-27 00:14:43
Origin: suggested
Selected: To the interior, smooth wall inside-surfaces create pure interior space, while to the city, smooth wall outside-surfaces definite clear open spaces. So the designer abandoned all decoration on both sides of wall, try to create the atmosphere of pure spaces, in order to highlight the art works at the same time.[Yu, Jasmine *Museum Display Design*. Design Media Publishing Limited, 2012.]

--- Context List ---
01. "wall 2001 As thin as possible: fantasy of the  two-dimensional wall, sketched in 3D by  SANAA for the Kunstlinie Almere,  Netherlands. PAGE 3 WALL The meaning of the wall is just as diverse as the uses of vertical surface can be, but there are at least two essential  functions: providing structure and dividing space. The two can be separated, and thus the category of 'wall' divides into  two: the bearing wall, separating roof from ground; and the partition wall, organizing movement within the resulting  container. The former, it would seem, is as stable as the human need for shelter; the latter as changeable as our forms  of sociability. "[INPUT: wall.pdf]

02. "In the context of this chapter, shaping a wall in plan presents opportunities for architectural enrichment, as illustrated at the Mönchengladbach Museum. Highly regarded for the qualities of its interior spaces and urban setting, an exterior gallery wall undulates (Fig. 4. 10). The sinuous wall imbues one gallery interior with special character and outside, the wall’s serpentine geometry appears as a natural extension of the curvilinear paths and brick walls that lead up the hillside to the museum."[Charleson, Andrew *Structure As Architecture: A Source Book For Architects And Structural Engineers*. Architectural Press, 2005.]

03. "To the interior, smooth wall inside-surfaces create pure interior space, while to the city, smooth wall outside-surfaces definite clear open spaces. So the designer abandoned all decoration on both sides of wall, try to create the atmosphere of pure spaces, in order to highlight the art works at the same time."[Yu, Jasmine *Museum Display Design*. Design Media Publishing Limited, 2012.]

04. "Surface textures relieve wall surfaces. Formwork tie holes and regularly spaced positive joints, as opposed to more conventional negative formwork joints, modulate large wall areas. Regular vertical niches spaced along the condolence hall longitudinal walls play a similar role (Fig. 2. 16). Minimalist structural detailing denies any expression of structural actions."[Charleson, Andrew *Structure As Architecture: A Source Book For Architects And Structural Engineers*. Architectural Press, 2005.]

05. "Functional Analysis of the ‘Wavy’ Enclosure Wall."[Wright, G.R.H. *Ancient Building Technology, Volume 3: Construction (2 vols.)*. Brill, 2009.]

06. "Hallway and special designed wall 3. Dusk view of façade 4."[Yu, Jasmine *Museum Display Design*. Design Media Publishing Limited, 2012.]

07. "If floor coverings are to be used, the designer may also try the different arrangements suggested by area rugs, which cover only part of a floor, or by carpeting, which is laid wall to wall. A room that is used for more than one activity may have two or more furniture groupings. For example, a family room might have groupings for television viewing, game playing, and reading."[Н.М., Філіппова, and Смуглякова М.К. *Focus on Design. Part Two. Interior Design*. 2017.]

08. "PAGE 20 WOVEN WALL The ur-wall is not, according to  19th century architectural theorist  Gottfried Semper, a mud or stone  line of enormous and reassuring  heft, but an artful, woven partition.  Hanging loosely, perhaps flapping,  the woven screen generates-   and, crucially, symbolizes -   the division and organization of  activities within the primitive dwelling. The woven "wall" is an enabler  of civilization; the thick structural  wall merely a defender of it. "[INPUT: wall.pdf]

09. "Such houses are these days usually open to visitors. The doors enfilade ate left open, and the sequence draws the train of visitors through from room to room. [You might also recall that in the film Spellbound (1945) Alfred Hitchcock used the image of doorways opening enfilade to represent the progressive depths of the human psyche. ]Doorways enfilade draw the eye, mind and body through from room to room."[Unwin, Simon *Doorway*. Routledge, 2008.]

10. "Practically, however, the two modes of action are always in some sort united. Again, the weight to be borne may either act generally on the whole wall surface, or with excessive energy on particular points: when it acts on the whole wall surface, the whole wall is generally supported; and the arrangement becomes a continuous rampart, as a dyke, or bank of reservoir."[Ruskin, John *The Stones of Venice: The foundations*. Smith, Elder, and co., 2013.]

11. "It should be noted that from limited excavations it is not necessarily clear whether the primary purpose of~ heavy wall at the crest of a slope is a defensive city wall or a retaining wall, a terrace wall (cf. Neolithic jericho v. Duj; pp. 66-67. EB Megiddo v. TA rg77, pp. 79 ff. ). In fact very often a wall must have served both 76, 78 URBAN FOR TIFICA TIONS-W ALLS 86 purposes-acting as a retaining wall in its lower parts and as a defensive wall above (cf."[Wright, G.R.H. *Ancient Building in South Syria and Palestine*. Leiden: Brill, 1985.]

12. "Acoustical adsorption 13. Curtain wall 14."[Liu, Helen *Residential Skin & Details*. DesignMedia Publishing Limited, 2013.]

13. "The larger niche is set back only 0. 14 m. from the face of the wall at the north, 0. 075 m. at the south. On the south side the setbackof the niche wall from the main wall is graduallyreducedfrom the floorlevel upwards until, at 3. 50 m. , it merges into the main wall surface. In the main wall surface,0. 35 m. north of the larger niche and approximately 1. 31 m. above the floor, a hole in the wall runs in diagonally for approximately 0. 70 m. Its use is uncertain;it may be a scaffoldinghole."[Biers, Jane C. *The Great Bath on the Lechaion Road (Corinth vol.17)*. Volume XVII. 1985.]

14. "In place of this a bonding transverse “wall” (itself of two faces and a core) can be built across the structure—obviously such a device is more proper to “engineering” structures, where special strength and stability is required (e. g. dams). It should be noticed also that this transverse bonding not only ties the wall together, but it also compartmentalises the core and thus reduces its outward pressure on the wall face (ABADY IV 1987 pp."[Wright, G.R.H. *Ancient Building Technology, Volume 3: Construction (2 vols.)*. Brill, 2009.]

15. "Wall plate A horizontal piece of timber, laid flat along the top of the wall at the level of the eaves, which carries the rafters. Wall sconce Fixtures mounted on a wall. They are both functional and decorative, and have a long history of centuries of use. Wall shaft Any engaged column or colonnette that is supported by a corbel or bracket and appears to support a vault rib or clustered ribs above it."[Ernest., Burden *Illustrated Dictionary of Architecture*. 2017.]

16. "    Figure 7. 8. Building 300, Room 305, Mortar E53:54, and bench with loom weights in situ. wall in its own right. On the west side of Doorway G, in Wall 3035, Pillar E53:9 stands 0. 54 m in height and is connected to west Wall 3031 + 3032 by another mudbrick connecting wall/bench (E53:22) that is only 0. 28–0. 43 m in height. The function of these low wall units was probably to give support to the stacked boulders and allow light and air to circulate between Rooms 305 and 315."[Daviau, P. M. Michele, Paul-Eugene Dion, Ronald G. V. Hancock, David Hemsworth, Margaret A. Judd, Ryan Defonzo, and Douglas W. Schnurrenberger *Excavations at Tall Jawa, Jordan, Volume 1: The Iron Age Town*. Brill Academic Publishers, 2003.]

17. "This system allows to experiment in each room a transversal view onto the landscape. There are no corridors. Circulation is made along the external wall, from room to room. The overall view continues beyond the windows, opening onto the surrounding landscape. 072 / 073 1 2 3 4 5 7 Wall Details (Right): 1. Bitumen roofing felt, two layers 7mm 2. Reinforced concrete slab 22-30cm 3."[Liu, Helen *Residential Skin & Details*. DesignMedia Publishing Limited, 2013.]

18. "However when the wall is a very thick one (e. g. a city wall) standing damp has a noxious result. The drying out process is mainly at the faces leaving the core damp. Thus the wall consists ofvirtually two different materials each with different physical properties and the faces tend to scale away at a plane of cleavage, perhaps 30-socms in from the surface."[Wright, G.R.H. *Ancient Building in South Syria and Palestine*. Leiden: Brill, 1985.]

19. "The angle of the wall gives the restaurant more street frontage, provides space for a reconfigured entrance and additional indoor and outdoor seating areas. Passing a small garden, patrons enter into a toplit space with a ramp up between the concrete boundary wall and a new low wall to the expanded dining area. Within this slot, guests can also continue up to a smaller rear dining room, which looks out to 2 an existing garden at the side."[*The Architectural Review - Sellection  2002-2005* 2011.]

20. "[16, 17] This wall is the line of support where many of the transfer beams mentioned above terminate and ﬁnd bearing surface. The wall is approximately 7. 5 meters long. At the bottom portion of this wall is a bookcase, a low horizontal wood unit measuring approximately 1. 12 meters high by 5 meters in length, sheathed with sliding glass doors. [18] The bookcase is not on the wall, but recessed so that it consumes virtually the entire depth of the wall, the front face of the woodwork set perfectly ﬂush with the wall’s plaster ﬁnish."[Kleinman, Kent, and Leslie Van Duzer *Mies van der Rohe's Krefeld Villas*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2005.]

21. "Cavetto molding See Molding Cavity wall A wall assembly constructed of two wythes of masonry bonded with wall ties and separated by an air cavity, which is sometimes filled with insulation. Cavity wall masonry See Masonry Cavity-fill insulation The insulation installed in the space created by wall, ceiling, roof, or floor framing, most commonly fiberglass-batt, spray-applied or dense-pack cellulose, or spray polyurethane."[Ernest., Burden *Illustrated Dictionary of Architecture*. 2017.]

22. "1994:150, fig. 3). In Building 700 at Tall Jawa, a stone pier wall supports one end of a lintel over a doorway between Rooms 712 and R713 (see below). This same construction technique was used at Busayra, where a “pier” wall (90) bonds with the outer wall, and serves as a cross wall between two rooms (Bienkowki 2001: fig. 3; 2002: fig. 4. 5). While this technique is also used in casemate wall systems, what is of interest here is its use in domestic structures."[Daviau, P. M. Michele, Paul-Eugene Dion, Ronald G. V. Hancock, David Hemsworth, Margaret A. Judd, Ryan Defonzo, and Douglas W. Schnurrenberger *Excavations at Tall Jawa, Jordan, Volume 1: The Iron Age Town*. Brill Academic Publishers, 2003.]

23. "18 Planning Your Bathroom An Entry Transition and a Central Space Improve a Bathroom Separate alcoves for different functions give a bathroom a roomlike quality. A small transition space changes the feel of the room. Create a Dressing Room Consider all kinds of storage needs in the early stages of your new bathroom design. If space and budget allow, create an alcove or new room adjacent to the bathroom for use as a walk-in dressing room."[Works, Word *New bathroom ideas that work*. Place of publication not identified: Taunton Press, 2013.]

24. "The gradients occur across the wall between the insulation dry by allowing moisture to evap- building consists of a black base of integrally two zones. Adequate wall cavity airflow and orate. Mechanical shades located in this colored concrete supporting a monolithic drainage are not provided and the interior of cavity in front of any windows further reduce block enveloped by opaque, transparent, the wall is inaccessible."[Killory, Christine *Details in Contemporary Architecture*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2007.]

25. "A B OV E L E F T The wall of new windows in the living room yields ample light and ventilation—whether for a watercolorist or a gathering of the family. WINDSWEPT 41 The kitchen is convenient to a wraparound outdoor deck or the dining room. Reflections of Mary Ellen Chase cooking here are just for the imagination. TO P The living room fireplace was totally dismantled and the stones sandblasted and then reassembled."[Mulfinger, Dale *The Family Cabin: Inspiration for Camps, Cottages, and Cabins*. Newtown, CT: Taunton Press, 2017.]