Created: 2025-11-07 12:39:02
Origin: suggested
Selected: If, in other words, one assumes that buildings evoke divergent meanings for different experiencers and interpreters, how is he or she to evaluate the relative accuracy and validity of competing interpretations?As evidence of a hermeneutic approach that might circumvent these two interpretive concerns, I discuss two significant efforts to generate what might be called a hermeneutics of the language of architecture: first, philosopher Karsten Harries’ language of natural symbols; and, second, architect Thomas Thiis-Evensen’s language of architectural archetypes.[(eds.), Bruce B. Janz. *Place, Space and Hermeneutics*. Springer International Publishing, 2017.]

--- Context List ---
01. "If, in other words, one assumes that buildings evoke divergent meanings for different experiencers and interpreters, how is he or she to evaluate the relative accuracy and validity of competing interpretations?As evidence of a hermeneutic approach that might circumvent these two interpretive concerns, I discuss two significant efforts to generate what might be called a hermeneutics of the language of architecture: first, philosopher Karsten Harries’ language of natural symbols; and, second, architect Thomas Thiis-Evensen’s language of architectural archetypes."[(eds.), Bruce B. Janz. *Place, Space and Hermeneutics*. Springer International Publishing, 2017.]

02. "Architecture emerges as the containment and pacification of textual energies which, without that binding influence from matter fixed in space, would soon run across the text from end to end. What governs both metaphor and metonymy is another textual operation: visualization. The text as a whole is envisaged as a luxurious Neapolitan building. This response to the Imagines is Lehmann's distinctive ekphrastic operation."[Stephen Melville, Bill Readings (eds.). *Vision and Textuality*. Macmillan Education UK, 1995.]

03. "This is a unique niche for an architectural firm, to say the least. We seek to fold in the design, construction, simulation, and presentation of virtual constructs and their environments by recreating various physical phenomena—such as artificial and natural light dynamics, specific qualities of physical materials and landscapes, and the precise behaviors of wind and heat upon a structure and its environment. This medium is not well understood within the discipline of architecture. It’s often thought of as an after-the-fact tool for representation or image-making, overlooking its generative capacity for designing, testing, and substantiating digital form- and space-making."[Elite Kedan, Jon Dreyfous, Craig Mutter. *Provisional: Emerging Modes of Architectural Practice USA*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2009.]

04. "Ultimately, the architectural languages of Jones, Harries, and Thiis-Evensen are all provocative hermeneutical explications. They demonstrate the prolific interpretive possibilities that a text—in this case, architecture—offers. They demonstrate that, as with any hermeneutical project, the understanding of any text is multivalent, always underway, and never complete. The work of these three architectural thinkers is inspiring and motivates researchers to forge other innovative hermeneutic renditions of architectural expression, experience, and meaning. References Alexander, C. 2002–2005. The Nature of Order, 4 vols. Berkeley: Center for Environmental Structure. Assefa, E. M. , and D. Seamon. 2007. Karsten Harries’ Natural Symbols as a Means for Interpreting Architecture: Inside and Outside in Frank Lloyd Wright’s Fallingwater and Alvar Aalto’s Villa Mairea. Wolkenkuckucksheim 12(1): 1–7. Bortoft, H. 1996. The Wholeness of Nature. Edinburgh: Floris. ———. 2012. Taking Appearance Seriously."[(eds.), Bruce B. Janz. *Place, Space and Hermeneutics*. Springer International Publishing, 2017.]

05. "Because Harries’ notion of natural symbols offers a hermeneutical means to locate broad lived qualities of architectural meaning expressed dialectically, one is provided one heuristic structure for locating the experience of buildings-in-themselves—the unique shadings of architectural presence and ambience evoked by particular combinations of specific natural symbols. Harries’ language provides one interpretive possibility for bypassing experiential accounts as they are grounded in the pre-reflective, unthematized attention of user lifeworlds and natural attitudes that Jones emphasizes in his accounts of ritual-architectural events. Harries offers an interpretation of architecture whereby the text—architecture-as-experienced-and-understood-viaexpression-of-particular-natural-symbols—can more precisely and completely reveal itself. In relation to Wachterhauser’s four guidelines for trustworthy interpretation, one can make the following claims for Harries’ language of natural symbols: 1."[(eds.), Bruce B. Janz. *Place, Space and Hermeneutics*. Springer International Publishing, 2017.]

06. "A particular case is explored in the fourth episode of the Transcripts. As 9  opposed to the plans, maps, or axonometrics used in the early episodes, the  perspectival description of buildings is concomitant with their photographic record;  the photograph acts as the origin of the architectural image. The perspective image  is no longer a mode of three-dimensional drawing, but the direct extension of the  photographic mode of perception. One of the most common techniques of  reproduction (of representation) is brought into the reality of the building, not as  trompe-1'oe. il, but as data. "[INPUT: Tschumi__The_Manhattan_Transcripts.pdf]

07. "Jones’ The Hermeneutics of Sacred Architecture (2000) is used as a heuristic context for explicating two central research concerns: first, the contentious question of whether buildings-in-themselves, as opposed to the personal, social, and cultural experiences and meanings of buildings, can be examined hermeneutically; and, second, the complex matter of interpretive trustworthiness— i. e. , how is one to evaluate the relative accuracy and validity of competing interpretations?To illustrate a hermeneutic perspective that might circumvent these two interpretive concerns, the chapter draws on two important efforts to generate what might be called a hermeneutics of the language of architecture: first, philosopher Karsten Harries’ language of natural symbols; and, second, architect Thomas ThiisEvensen’s language of architectural archetypes."[(eds.), Bruce B. Janz. *Place, Space and Hermeneutics*. Springer International Publishing, 2017.]

08. "It is also necessary that the system be completely differentiated both syntactically and semantically. Hence the definiteness and repeatability that digital devices can provide. Now, a digital image that is not properly modifiable in an interaction, not exactly interactive, might exemplify a semantic interpretation of a symbolic scheme. We would have then the opportunity to clarify beyond any process of resemblance the difference between an analog and a digital image, even when, paradoxically, the digital image “represents” the analog picture, or possesses the same “content. ” The digital image would then be a representation that is not a mere depiction but a description, as opposed to the painting, which is not a notational symbolic scheme, but rather one that is syntactically dense inasmuch as it fails to permit a finite scansion of the scale of values that belong to it."[Roberto Diodato, Silvia Benso, Justin L. Harmon, John Protevi. *Aesthetics of the Virtual*. Albany: State University of New York Press, 2012.]

09. "Thus, the digital image, at least in its strongest characterization, is not strictly speaking “image” but “subtle body,” a hybrid image-object entity, and its appearance, its existence as image, is essentially interactive. Let us now justify these observations, first of all in their effects with respect to some traditional categories in aesthetics, namely, representation and simulacrum. When the virtual body is understood as representation, it demonstrates a unique complexity and paradoxical nature."[Roberto Diodato, Silvia Benso, Justin L. Harmon, John Protevi. *Aesthetics of the Virtual*. Albany: State University of New York Press, 2012.]

10. "Architects concerned with history, or historians concerned with architecture, thus, over the course of the centuries marking Tafuri’s eclipse, traded a fragmentary yet immediate knowledge of the past for complete, discrete, communicable (and inevitably loaded) images, exchanging a confrontation with reality for an encounter with its representation. History (in architecture) and historians (of architecture) alike hence experience the crisis that Tafuri pinpoints. History as image Tafuri begins arguing that Brunelleschi, by introducing a classical architectural language into medieval Florence through ‘a superhistorical comparison with the great example of antiquity’, and Alberti, formalizing a structure for that reborn language, fixed history – the narrative representation of past in the present – as a new architectural value."[Hartoonian, Gevork. *Walter Benjamin and architecture*. London, New York: Routledge, 2010.]