Created: 2025-12-27 16:12:10
Origin: suggested
Selected: (James Campbell) In monastery buildings, the stairs from the dormitory to the choir – the so-called night stairs – were usually straight (e. g.[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

--- Context List ---
01. "STAIR PAGE 291 Friedrich Mielke Treppen in Nürnberg Schriften zur internationalen Treppenforschung Band XV PAGE 292 STAIR 23. 2008  Man and stairs STAIR PAGE 293 Friedrich Mielke Mensch und Treppe Schriften zur internationalen Treppenforschung Band XVI PAGE 294 STAIR “how do people walk on stairs?" For the study of human behavior on  stairs, both as a whole and individually,  three different methods may be  applied: 1. A laboratory experiment,  with a programmed observation  of people walking on stairs 2. A covert observation of random  people walking on stairs 3. The notation of stepping paths  on worn stairs (Steigespuren) "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

02. "A deadbolt turned, foot-steps faded; silence fell."[Praeger, Dave, and Paul Provenza *Poop Culture: How America Is Shaped by Its Grossest National Product*. Feral House, 2007.]

03. "(James Campbell) In monastery buildings, the stairs from the dormitory to the choir – the so-called night stairs – were usually straight (e. g."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

04. "This type of construction takes a bit more expertise and time, but it pays big rewards in a graceful appearance far beyond what you would expect on such a modest deck. In fact, the scalloped edge is what brings this deck to life, and the stairs are a big part of that flair. The best deck stairs integrate with the design so that the eye doesn’t even necessarily read the steps as steps."[Peterson, Chris *Deck ideas you can use: creative deck designs for every home & yard*. Minneapolis, Minn: Creative Publishing international, 2011.]

05. "An additional 35 occupants that could not walk down the stairs were able to use elevators for egress."[Hoskins, Bryan L., and James A. Milke (auth.) *Study of Movement Speeds Down Stairs*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2013.]

06. "Table 6. 4 Recommended minimum going based on research into accident research. Min. going Private stair 250 mm Semi-private stair 300 mm Public stairs 350 mm Source: M. Loo-Morrey, K. Hallas and S. Thorpe, ‘Minimum going requirements and friction demands during stair descent’, Contemporary Ergonomics, 2004, pp8–12. Many early books on staircases recommended a wash or kilt, which is a downward slope to the treads."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

07. "Figure 7. 2h External escape stairs, Apple Computer's Facility Stockley Park, 1989, Architects: Troughton McAslan 120 Stairs 7. 5 Special stairs Figure 7. 3a Folded steel stairs: Providing builders access as skeletal frame is erected and then used permanently Welded plate formed into hollow tubular members gives the greatest freedom in design."[Blanc, Sylvia, and Alan Blanc *Stairs, Second Edition*. Architectural Press, 2001.]

08. ". Alternative tread stairs ± stairs with paddle shaped treads where the wider portion alternates from one side to the other on each consecutive treads (Figure 10. 1d). . Helical stairs ± stairs which form a helix round a central void. . Spiral stairs ± stairs which form a helix round a central column. . Ladder ± a series of rungs or narrow treads used as a means of access from one level to another which is normally used by a person facing the ladder."[Blanc, Sylvia, and Alan Blanc *Stairs, Second Edition*. Architectural Press, 2001.]

09. "Also, counterflow was present in the stair with only the photoluminescent markings. Density was calculated for the average conditions in each stair during the busiest 3 min of the drill. The densities were 2. 05 persons/m2 (photoluminescent markings stair), 1. 00 persons/m2 (reduced emergency lighting and photoluminescent markings stair), 1. 23 persons/m2 (reduced emergency lighting stair), and 1. 30 persons/m2 (normal emergency lighting stair)."[Hoskins, Bryan L., and James A. Milke (auth.) *Study of Movement Speeds Down Stairs*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2013.]

10. "Article 122 requires that certain through stairs be designated as escape stairs and be constructed in accordance with article 123."[Bukowski, Richard W. *Emergency Egress From Buildings*. National Institute of Standards and Technology, 2009.]

11. "Represented, not to forget Holland. The German stairs are  only conditionally German. If I were to write the book today,  I would give it the title Stairs in Germany. Then we could  pack almost everything in there. 10,000 STA IR S When I noticed that we actually don't have any German  stairs, or very few truly German stairs, I threw myself into  studying the stairs of other countries. Thus, the travels,  for instance in 1960 to Holland, Belgium and France. Fi9S 30-31  "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

12. "While the philosophy of “storing” stationary occupants in stairs is not intended, the stairs remain a more protected space within the building. Some occupants may choose to use stairs (particularly on the lower floors) and the ability to find refuge in stairs is an important redundancy. Where occupant egress elevators are provided it is expected that most occupants will use them, but some minimum capacity for refuge is needed."[Bukowski, Richard W. *Emergency Egress From Buildings*. National Institute of Standards and Technology, 2009.]

13. "The flows through stairs are imposed by the user in relation to the admitted flows through the stairs, i. e. imposing the capacity of the stairs and the speeds of the occupants. Also in this case, the default setting employed by the model for stairs is the one provided by NFPA 130, i. e. , the values for a ramp slope > or < 4 % up and down. Model users can also modify this default setting with the desired flow through stairs."[Ronchi, Enrico, and Daniel Nilsson (auth.) *Assessment of Total Evacuation Systems for Tall Buildings*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2014.]

14. "Results show that the use of two stairs (Strategy 1) for high-rise building evacuations provide higher evacuation times compared with any other strategy employed. Results about the evacuation time using three stairs or a combination of elevators and stairs present lower results than the use of two stairs. The use of three stairs or a combined use of stairs and elevators presents evacuation times in approximately the same range."[Ronchi, Enrico, and Daniel Nilsson (auth.) *Assessment of Total Evacuation Systems for Tall Buildings*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2014.]

15. "34, para. 6, sent. 2 of the MBO specifies that stairs must be fitted with handrails on both sides and intermediate handrails where this is necessary for safety reasons. However, some federal state building regulations stipulate this for stairs in buildings with more than two dwellings reached via stairs. If stepless access (i. e. ramp or lift) to these dwellings is not possible, the use of the stairs by older occupants should be made safer and more comfortable by providing a handrail on both sides."[Heiss, Oliver *Barrier-Free Design*. Birkhäuser Architecture, 2010.]

16. "Stairs Semicircular stairs nestled between walls of foundation skirting is an excellent feature for distinguishing a fairly undistinguished deck. This small, gray dining deck also features natural wood railings with glass inserts, but it’s the stairs that set a truly sophisticated tone. This is why choosing stair style is always a part of a good deck design—they should never be an afterthought Stair configuration goes far in determining how the deck is perceived."[Peterson, Chris *Deck ideas you can use: creative deck designs for every home & yard*. Minneapolis, Minn: Creative Publishing international, 2011.]

17. "Our body’s matter mounts upon the stairs’ matter. We are both worn. We rise by some internal persistence that corresponds to the intemality of the function that keeps the stairs in perpetual tension. The stairs are ready for us. Their readiness draws us to them. We are ready for the stairs. Our readiness opens them to our participation. Since we have the potentiality of climbing stairs, and an intention to do so, the stairs give The Ruin as l unction PI."[Ginsberg, Robert *The Aesthetics of Ruins: Illustrated by the Author*. Rodopi, 2004.]

18. "Foot of stairs. 2. Balcony."[Contet, Frédéric *Masterpieces of Eighteenth-Century French Ironwork: With Over 300 Illustrations*. Dover Publications, 2004.]

19. "13. Stairs, Roman Odeon, Gortvn, Crete, Greece, 1974 43 44 THE AESTHETICS OF RUINS life to our awaiting soles/souls. They respect our functioning. They recognize our innemess. Comfortable familiarity occurs in together-being with the steps, being in step with Being. To take the first step upon the stairs in a ruin is to start the measure of their spatiality by the extension of our presence."[Ginsberg, Robert *The Aesthetics of Ruins: Illustrated by the Author*. Rodopi, 2004.]