Created: 2025-12-29 21:48:51
Origin: suggested
Selected: To explain the Fulfillment (jǀju) of an ideal performance, Zeami refers to a tale in which the goddess Amaterasu “had shut the great stone door,” bringing darkness to the world, and then opened the door such that “light suddenly appeared,” bringing “unreflecting joy” to all creatures. In an ideal performance, he says, “Peerless Charm that transcends words” corresponds to the moment when “the world was plunged into darkness”; the “sudden brightness” to the actor’s Flower; and the experience of that brightness to the audience’s Fascination of Feeling that Transcends Consciousness (133).[Bogue, Ronald, Hanping Chiu, and Yu-lin Lee *Deleuze and Asia*. Cambridge Scholars Publishing, 2014.]

--- Context List ---
01. "The sky was obscured by clouds and by a thick smog that bleached out everything. Imperceptibly, the light grew dim, and even though I could not witness the actual overlapping of the moon and the sun and could experience only the disappearance of light, I was truly overcome by an apocalyptic feeling. The whole cycle of transition between day and night and day again occurred in a short lapse of time. The city became very quiet - a nightmarish feeling. The darkness lasted only a few minutes, and gradually but this time more rapidly, light reappeared behind clouds."[Perez-Gomez, Alberto, and Stephen Parcell *Chora 1: Intervals in the Philosophy of Architecture*. Mcgill Queens Univ Pr, 1994.]

02. "It is a town of dreams under a large and shifting sky that reflects the great and magical order of the heavens. Seeking to reveal a mythical or "parallel" reality,6 Schulz celebrated the poetic and elusive nature of the world: "It is exceedingly thoughtless to send a young boy out on an urgent and important errand into a night like that, because in its semi-obscurity the streets multiply, becoming confused and interchanged. There open up, deep inside a city, reflected streets, streets which are doubles, make-believe streets."[Perez-Gomez, Alberto, and Stephen Parcell *Chora 1: Intervals in the Philosophy of Architecture*. Mcgill Queens Univ Pr, 1994.]

03. "In the KLM Light Mural, time, space, and meaning, although almost graspable, seem to be ceaselessly disintegrating and scattering away, not unlike the mirage-like reflection of the city on the glass skyscraper in Bass’s title sequence. The Light Mural’s kinetic lights insist on the work’s presentness and belonging in its ephemeral urban context."[Toth, Edit *Design and Visual Culture from the Bauhaus to Contemporary Art: Optical Deconstructions*. Routledge, 2018.]

04. "“The city of the future is the pleasure of the interval. ”1 And when the interval is light, mechanically proximate space yields to electromagnectic proximity (simultaneous and instantaneous) and the city grid to the informational network; immediate practice is displaced by “teleaction,” and geopolitics by chronopolitics. This is the overexposed city, whose images range from the comparatively benign ubiquity of televisions, computer screens, and fax machines to the horrifying penetration of the nuclear flash into Hiroshima’s darkest recesses."[Hays, K. Michael *Architecture Theory since 1968*. The MIT Press, 1998.]

05. "To explain the Fulfillment (jǀju) of an ideal performance, Zeami refers to a tale in which the goddess Amaterasu “had shut the great stone door,” bringing darkness to the world, and then opened the door such that “light suddenly appeared,” bringing “unreflecting joy” to all creatures. In an ideal performance, he says, “Peerless Charm that transcends words” corresponds to the moment when “the world was plunged into darkness”; the “sudden brightness” to the actor’s Flower; and the experience of that brightness to the audience’s Fascination of Feeling that Transcends Consciousness (133)."[Bogue, Ronald, Hanping Chiu, and Yu-lin Lee *Deleuze and Asia*. Cambridge Scholars Publishing, 2014.]

06. "That is, light may be in the area of the Real coming from a 'mundane' source or it may be 'divine'. In other paintings the light comes from within the painting; for instance, in The Holy Family on the Flight to Egypt, where it forms the (divine) light 'in the world' (there is also a second, faint light coming from outside, in the sky above). In Belshazzar's Feast, by a most unusual contrast, the light source (the glowing script announcing the doom of the king) is situated in the top-right quadrant-the space of the New and the 'Ideal'/'divine'."[Kress, Gunther, and Theo van Leeuwen *Reading Images: The Grammar of Visual Design*. 2nd ed. Routledge, 2006.]

07. "Notwithstanding their written statements, maps and diagrams abstracting from sensuous experience proved more reassuring. Indeed, their stated objectives also included determining “the means of expressing the city as a process … [including] graphic interpretation of city pulsation and growth or of the pattern and grain of city motion” and the “perceptual consequences of circulation systems. ”60 Kepes intended to produce a “relational diagram” of the city with colored lights to articulate its fundamental space patterns, making visible features of the city invisible from street level, thus distancing his investigation from the concerns of the passer-by. 61 The KLM Light Mural’s variety of perspectives, huge kinetic “map,” organically evolving space and colorful “pulsation” visualizes the city as process and circulation in a condensed and artistic form, but its unruly elements, multiple perspectives, and light environment constantly destabilize its networking impulses and reach out to “invade” the city."[Toth, Edit *Design and Visual Culture from the Bauhaus to Contemporary Art: Optical Deconstructions*. Routledge, 2018.]

08. "The canvas taunts you into considering that, yes, you can look away. So: What do you see in the Away?“We say ‘inner world’ or ‘outer world’ but actually there is just one whole world,” Shunryu Suzuki writes, on his way to an architectural reference destined for ripening in the endless house: In this limitless world, our throat is like a swinging door. The air comes in and goes out like someone passing through a swinging door. If you think “I breathe,” the “I” is extra. … When your mind is pure and calm enough to follow this movement, there is nothing: no “I,” no world, no mind nor body; just a swinging door."[Lecercle, Jean-Jacques, and Françoise Kral *Architecture and Philosophy: New Perspectives on the Work of Arakawa & Madeline Gins. (Architecture - Technology - Culture)*. Amsterdam: Rodopi, 2010.]

09. "This is the world of wall-to-wall TV: the city as one gigantic gambling casino. The change in the perception of time—with a sense of the disappearance of local or historical time—is consistent with the increasing dominance of real, instantaneous time of the PC screen—with space dematerialized through information technologies. The overexposed city is captured photographically and spectrally at speed, in transit, on the move, on the mobile—in a constant blur. The morphogenetic form of the city is not architectural as such but symbolic and hyperreal—derived more from the flow of images in permanent states of composition-decomposition."[Bogue, Ronald, Hanping Chiu, and Yu-lin Lee *Deleuze and Asia*. Cambridge Scholars Publishing, 2014.]

10. "This is our moment in time to be visionary like the legislators in New York City so long ago. When we consider the Hollywood vision of a future earth, it is characterized by darkness, dis-ease and no vegetation. To circumvent this kind of apocalyptic urban future, considerate steps can be taken now to leave a brighter tomorrow. Nature is our unconscious warning system. Nature, by its actions, informs of balance or imbalance in the earth."[(eds.), Peter Pericles Trifonas *International Handbook of Semiotics*. Springer Netherlands, 2015.]

11. "It allows one to read it, to be a solar Eye, looking down like a god. (92) For Certeau, the act of walking down the streets and alleys of the city is an act of writing: “they are walkers, Wandersmänner, whose bodies follow the thicks and thins of an urban ‘text’ the write without being able to read it” (93). That is to say that the city itself becomes a text in our viewing of it as well as in our experience of it."[Murray, Joddy *Non-discursive Rhetoric: Image and Affect in Multimodal Composition*. 2009.]

12. "Furthermore, the back room seems to be filled with green light in an astonishing way. Reminiscent of fog, the light seems to float particle-like, somehow materially in the air, filling the space and creating some kind of skin on the plane of the window. This experience of light differs significantly from the usual perception of light as light-source or as illuminated world of objects. Light, the conveyor of every visual experience, becomes apparent as an independent medium. 6 4"Moab" was shown in Zurich 2001-2002: Exh."[(Eds.), Grant Malcolm *Multidisciplinary Approaches to Visual Representations and Interpretations*. Elsevier, Academic Press, 2005.]

13. "Medina was frequently described as the City of Light and the Prophet’s tomb as lighting up the world (figure 1). The ideas behind these images express Sufi notions that involve a cosmic relationship between heaven and earth, with heavenly domes, the revolving moon and stars, the cosmic pillar, rays of light, Mohammed as a column of light, and cities of light as the main components. 26 In fact, the SMA’s head imam, when he fulminated against the Wahhabi and Ahmadiyya blasphemy, continuously compared the Prophet with the moon and the sun in a variety of ways, and his successor-saints with the heavenly stars. 27 In effect, the WIM leader, as the latest in a series of Brelwi-venerated Sufi saints, was presented as the replacement of Mohammed on earth and the channel through which the latter’s light was radiated."[Mekking, Aart J.J., and Eric Roose *The Global Built Environment as a Representation of Realities: Why and How Architecture Should Be the Subject of Worldwide Comparison*. 2009.]

14. "The ephemerality and interactive quality of the medium refracted the client’s global ambitions. 39 This move toward light as a pure medium was partially in the legacy of Kepes’s earlier work with figures like Moholy-Nagy, who also was deeply concerned with light itself as a structure for artistic perception and as a site for the exploration of this new-found materiality of perception. Kepes scaled this VISUALIZING_97 Fig. 2. 6 _ Simulated effects of a proposed mile-long programmed luminous wall, suggested for the Boston Harbor Bicentennial, 1964–1965."[Halpern, Orit *Beautiful Data: A History of Vision and Reason since 1945*. Durham and London: Duke University Press Books, 2015.]

15. "This is the side of modernism that puts the idealist and dynamic abstraction of the 1920s to work on behalf of commerce, bringing the avant-garde explosion of movement and speed to a full stop. Here the “City of the Future” (an evident reference of Le Corbusier’s “Ville Contemporaine” of the mid-1920s) is realized in the present, transforming, as Smithson notes, the promise of Malevich’s “non-objective world” into a real – as opposed to an imaginary – desert. . . . for many of today’s artists this “desert” is a “City of the Future” made of null structures and surfaces."[Read, Alan *Architecturally Speaking: Practices of Art, Architecture and the Everyday*. 2000.]

16. "The concept of image combines an exigency of the full with that of universal variation: "All images constantly interact with all others. "In this full light of continual variation, the void inserts itself like a dark spot raised by the screen of our consciousness; it is a moment of indeterminacy in the interactions of light. The framing of emptiness within the fullness of light defines the screen."[Cache, Bernard *Earth Moves: The Furnishing of Territories (Writing Architecture)*. The MIT Press, 1995.]

17. "VISUALIZING_81 While the title of the study utilized the term “image,” Lynch initially equated urban space with the rhythm and cadence of music. He wrote that the city is composed of “sequences” and that urban planning is a “temporal art . . . like music. ” Continuing in this vein, Lynch argued that vision is musical because of its interactive qualities; “nothing is experienced by itself, but always in relation to its surroundings, the sequence of events leading up to it, the memory of past experiences. ”5 Lynch repeated the cybernetic insistence, perhaps inherited from his mentors, on translation between sensorial forms, and chose to reinterpret topics of space, structure, and environment in terms of sensation and affect."[Halpern, Orit *Beautiful Data: A History of Vision and Reason since 1945*. Durham and London: Duke University Press Books, 2015.]

18. "OPEN YOUR EYES TO THE FUTURE’. 28 Balconies, dioramas, aerial simulations – all these means were mobilised to make sense, through perspectival distancing, of an increasingly complex city. [12. 3] Henry Dreyfuss, ‘Democracity’, New York World’s Fair, 1939. THE CITY SEEN FROM THE AEROPLANE 221 [12. 4] Orly Airport, observation terraces, early 1960s. In terms of aerial infrastructure, the valence of spectacle – present from the very first aeronautical shows – became enhanced by the airport experience. The great airports that had been built in the 1930s proffered the choreography of planes moving on the ground."[Dorrian, Mark, and Frédéric Poussin (eds.) *Seeing from Above: The Aerial View in Visual Culture*. I.B.Tauris, 2013.]

19. "Chapter 15 Dear Peter Richard Wentworth Dear Peter The world is made of light. Thousands of paintings and photographs emphasise and celebrate it. Light falls, irrespective of the material it meets. Light reveals the world and the ways we try to regulate it. 246 Showing Do people seek light and shade for different reasons?Is it different for different people?If the world is made of light, what is the ground made of?What impression do we make on it?Should we leave one behind?247 Dear Peter Paved with gold?"[Read, Alan *Architecturally Speaking: Practices of Art, Architecture and the Everyday*. 2000.]

20. "This surface reverberated inside me. I felt a poetic drive rising as I began to experience resonances, sentimental repercussions and reminders of my past. 16 April 01, 2003 – Bogotá. Santafé Hospital. Waiting, staring silently at the neon lights:17 A surgery room is always an uneasy place, marked by anxiety, nervousness, and uneasiness. Waiting for a surgeon to come while being left in a hospital bed. Light after light above me. Bright white light and the awkward smell of cleanliness. I kept staring insistently at the huge intervention tools over a table."[El-Bizri, Nader *Recto Verso: Redefining the Sketchbook*. New ed. Aldershot: Ashgate Pub. Group, 2013.]

21. "The number of buildings and shops in Orchard Road stands as testimony to the realization of Raffles's vision of a 'bustling emporium' (Jayapal, 1992: 67). A city is therefore 'man's single most impressive and visible achievement' (Pike, 1996: 243) while remaining nonetheless a 'social institution' (Mumford, 1996: 184). A city or a 'built world, like a written text, stores information' and 'presents particular transformations and embeddings of a culture's knowledge of itself and of the world' (Preziosi, 1984: 50-51)."[O'Halloran, Kay L. *Multimodal Discourse Analysis: Systemic Functional Perspectives (Open Linguistics)*. 2004.]

22. "For example, the sunrise in the jungle morning was expressed as yellow and red spotlights fading up, accompanied by soft, high-pitched and calm sounds, while the jungle night was expressed as a short period of down fading and flashing spotlights focused inside plastic pipes accompanied by low-pitched, raw sounds moving slowly around in the eight speakers, followed by a long period of only ultraviolet light accompanied by sounds moving fast around the top four speakers like the sound of a storm."[(auth.), Kim Halskov Madsen, and Kim Halskov Madsen (eds.) *Production Methods: Behind the Scenes of Virtual Inhabited 3D Worlds*. Springer-Verlag London, 2003.]

23. "This dramatization of a metaphor is a recurring feature in City of Glass. In one sequence, the pictures eﬀectively stage the suggestion that the perambulations of the elder Peter Stillman (hereafter “Stillman”), which form letters if traced on a map, are “like drawing a picture in the air with your ﬁnger ."[Miodrag, Hannah *Comics and Language: Reimagining Critical Discourse on the Form*. University Press of Mississippi, 2013.]

24. "And with this overall shift we may recognise too the potential demise of the public realm itself. What emerge, then, are ‘bubbles of immanence’, as Marc Augé has described them, supposedly fictionalised worlds, for which Disneyland is the archetype: Theme parks, holiday clubs, leisure parks and residential ones like Center Parcs, but also the private towns which are seeing the light of day in America, and even the fortified and securitypatrolled residences which are springing up in the cities of the Third World, like so many fortresses, form what one might call bubbles of immanence. 23 These ‘bubbles of immanence’ extend to international chains of stores, hotels and restaurants, which adopt the same decor everywhere in the world."[Rattenbury, K. *This is Not Architecture: Media Constructions*. 2002.]

25. "uch opportunities,' That is, design a. synapse bet ween the space of motion and the place of tou h. In Space and Place Yi-Fu Tuan writ s; Touch articulates another kind of complex world ',' It i a world that is in tension with, if not opposition to, the post modern city of 'strange new feelings of an absence of inside outside, the bewilderment and loss of spatial orientuuon'. "This world described by Fredric Jame: on is one dominated by the visual. It is a world of br icolage and fragmentation, a place obse: cd with image ."[Davies, Colin, and Monika Parrinder (auth.) *Limited Language: Rewriting Design: responding to a feedback culture*. Birkhäuser Basel, 2010.]