Created: 2025-12-27 14:32:01
Origin: searched
Selected: Such stairs could be used as a way of asserting the separation between the gods and mortal men. They could, however, also be used in some instances as a method of human sacrifice, the victim pushed from the top providing a grisly reminder that stairs are as potentially deadly as they are useful. Stairs still hold cultural references. In films, characters attending parties usually arrive descending a set of stairs.[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Such stairs could be used as a way of asserting the separation between the gods and mortal men. They could, however, also be used in some instances as a method of human sacrifice, the victim pushed from the top providing a grisly reminder that stairs are as potentially deadly as they are useful. Stairs still hold cultural references. In films, characters attending parties usually arrive descending a set of stairs."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

02. "An alternative, and one which has been used historically, is to apply a stair over the stair (see the case study, below). Timber has traditionally been used to create a conservative repair that removes no original material and reinstates a safe, regular flight of stairs, thus satisfying health and safety guidelines. This does, however, create a significant visual impact which may preclude it as a solution in certain circumstances."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

03. "5. When using the seal slide lift Fig. 8–14 The Rescuers Slide the Firefighter Victim Down the Wide method, as the victim Staircase (Kolomay) approaches the bottom of the staircase, turn the victim sharply onto the floor. This action will decrease the chance of the victim’s head and/or neck being injured if pulled straight into the floor. |183| CH08(173-210) | 3/18/03 5:04 PM Page 184 FIREFIGHTER RESCUE AND SURVIVAL | Firefighter staircase rescue with a rescue basket The rescue basket can be a very advantageous and readily accessible piece of equipment for firefighter rescue."[Kolomay, Richard, and Robert Hoff *Firefighter Rescue And Survival*. Tulsa, Okla: PennWell, 2003.]

04. "Stairs used for means of escape in case of ®re must exit direct to the open air."[Blanc, Sylvia, and Alan Blanc *Stairs, Second Edition*. Architectural Press, 2001.]

05. "Four different stair configurations were used."[Hoskins, Bryan L., and James A. Milke (auth.) *Study of Movement Speeds Down Stairs*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2013.]

06. "For the same last ditch reasons that would cause a firefighter to use the hang-drop method, a firefighter having a ground ladder would use this particular method. Although there is a perception to the untrained eye that a firefighter exiting a window headfirst onto a ladder is excessively dangerous, however, it is, in fact, safer under pressing conditions than the conventional “step-over” method for various reasons."[Kolomay, Richard, and Robert Hoff *Firefighter Rescue And Survival*. Tulsa, Okla: PennWell, 2003.]

07. "A few studies were conducted in laboratory settings on specially constructed stair sections where the geometries and stair angle could be varied systematically. Templer himself conducted several of these studies, including some at NBS. Most of the studies reviewed concluded that the measure of Total Energy Cost per Meter Rise is a useful metric for the evaluation of stair design for normal use and comfort; however stair safety is more closely related to the likelihood of missteps which is a function of how the stair relates to the human gait."[Bukowski, Richard W. *Emergency Egress From Buildings*. National Institute of Standards and Technology, 2009.]

08. "STAIR PAGE 301 Melina cathedral, Malta: alternating  tread stairs. Measurements: I. and F.  Mielke, January 26, 1982. alternating steps These alternating tread stairs are  advantageous only in their space-saving,  not so much in their use. It is possible to get used to the alternating  steps when climbing this stair. In descending  the stair, however, danger lurks in the constraints imposed by the stepping sequence  as well as in the irregular step height. Due  to its location at a great height on the roof  of a cathedral, this stair is presumably used  only for inspection, therefore the danger is  limited to few individuals. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

09. "While the philosophy of “storing” stationary occupants in stairs is not intended, the stairs remain a more protected space within the building. Some occupants may choose to use stairs (particularly on the lower floors) and the ability to find refuge in stairs is an important redundancy. Where occupant egress elevators are provided it is expected that most occupants will use them, but some minimum capacity for refuge is needed."[Bukowski, Richard W. *Emergency Egress From Buildings*. National Institute of Standards and Technology, 2009.]

10. "Cut-string open stairs appear clumsy and present problems in effectively framing treads and Figure 6. 2a Framing timber stairs: Log pole with footholds chopped out, circa twelfth century, Norway 94 Stairs Figure 6. 2b Framing timber stairs: Log ladder, circa twentieth century, children's playground strings; such construction is more appropriate to composite assemblies."[Blanc, Sylvia, and Alan Blanc *Stairs, Second Edition*. Architectural Press, 2001.]

11. "People carrying children tended to move at the same average speed as the rest of the population, but they were also more cautious in their movements. During the evacuations, occupants tended to use stairs that they used on a regular basis even if other stairs were closer to their apartment. The stairs were never crowded during the drill (the density was not reported), but many occupants traveled in groups."[Hoskins, Bryan L., and James A. Milke (auth.) *Study of Movement Speeds Down Stairs*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2013.]

12. "Methods commonly used were ‘walking the witch’ whereby the accused would have a rope tied around them and they would constantly be walked round the room by the guards. Though the guards would take breaks and take turns to ‘walk the witch’, the accused was not allowed to rest, received no food or water and would often be walked for days at a time. If they slowed down, they would be struck with a bat, which would often have nails driven through it to rip their flesh from the body."[Stewart, G, and G Stewart *Scotland’s Hidden Hauntings: A Collection of Real Ghost Stories*. 2013.]

13. "PAGE 116 STAIR -  4. 1985 SCALALOGY -  COLLECTED WRITINGS ON STAIR RESEARCH (VOL. 1) "the stair, queen of architecture": spiral stairs 1500-1507 Saint-Gatien  cathedral, Tours, north tower. STAIR PAGE 117 K ike  on Saint Gatien's Cathedral in     (begun around 338 AD) with its  calier  (beginning 16th century): f t  cannot assum e that the stairway  ^ b u ilt to honor a king or even to  ^used by a king. The attribute 'royal'  j s not necessarily refer to one  Kgon. Its use as an adjective sug-  "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

14. "With no natural daylight, water constantly dripping from the ceilings and no sanitation, the living conditions were terrible and crime was subsequently rife. Victims of crime could not seek any help from the officials, because to do so would mean they exposed themselves as being homeless, which would result in them being punished (the standard punishment was being flogged and with the living conditions at the time, it would only be a short while before the wounds became infected and the person would die)."[Stewart, G, and G Stewart *Scotland’s Hidden Hauntings: A Collection of Real Ghost Stories*. 2013.]

15. "Results show that the use of two stairs (Strategy 1) for high-rise building evacuations provide higher evacuation times compared with any other strategy employed. Results about the evacuation time using three stairs or a combination of elevators and stairs present lower results than the use of two stairs. The use of three stairs or a combined use of stairs and elevators presents evacuation times in approximately the same range."[Ronchi, Enrico, and Daniel Nilsson (auth.) *Assessment of Total Evacuation Systems for Tall Buildings*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2014.]

16. "34, para. 6, sent. 2 of the MBO specifies that stairs must be fitted with handrails on both sides and intermediate handrails where this is necessary for safety reasons. However, some federal state building regulations stipulate this for stairs in buildings with more than two dwellings reached via stairs. If stepless access (i. e. ramp or lift) to these dwellings is not possible, the use of the stairs by older occupants should be made safer and more comfortable by providing a handrail on both sides."[Heiss, Oliver *Barrier-Free Design*. Birkhäuser Architecture, 2010.]

17. "On the surface, this approach has a number of interesting and useful features. There would be no need for workers to struggle with lifting large blocks. The workers could carry as much material as practical. Different people could certainly carry different amounts. This would allow children and others not normally considered suitable for pyramid building to contribute to the effort."[Fonte, Gerard C. A. *Building the Great Pyramid in a Year: An Engineer's Report*. 2007.]

18. "It was immediately recognized as to impersonate death. The attendants approaching it were overcome and fell on the floor as dead. Then [one of] the other attendants would come running up and take from under his garment a small urinal and from this he would scatter some of the contents, which was supposedly urine, and then the victims would come to life, and then other attendants would run before the being throwing 73 74 Beynon Notebooks urine upon the guests."[Anderson, Margaret, and Marjorie Halpin *Potlatch at Gitsegukla: William Beynon’s 1945 Field Notebooks*. University of British Columbia Press, 1999.]

19. "This option indicates that the capacity for stairs in NFPA 130 is used for stairs over or under 4 % of slope in the up or down direction. Users can also modify this default setting with the desired flows and speeds through stairs. An alternative method is the definition of a plane with the shape of the stair under consideration. This method is particularly effective when the shape of the stair is not conventional (e. g. , spiral stairs)."[Ronchi, Enrico, and Daniel Nilsson (auth.) *Assessment of Total Evacuation Systems for Tall Buildings*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2014.]

20. "In effect it puts the runners on the ground (like railroad rails) instead of on the sledge. The sledges would be built differently with the “runners” at right angles to the direction of travel. In this case, wear on these “runners” would be beneficial because it would help keep the sledge properly aligned on the rails 169 Building the Great Pyramid in a Year and reduce wander."[Fonte, Gerard C. A. *Building the Great Pyramid in a Year: An Engineer's Report*. 2007.]

21. "To take in the dying, who would make the Hospital’s statistics look poor, or those who might be a serious long-term drain on the institution’s resources (what we might now describe as ‘bed-blockers’) would skew the Hospital’s statistics in an undesirable direction. High rates of cases successfully treated (and beds ready when necessary to accommodate well-off subscribers’ domestic servants) were crucial to keep donations ﬂowing, without which such institutions would fail."[Richardson, Ruth *Dickens and the workhouse : Oliver Twist and the London poor*. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2013.]

22. "Foot of stairs. 2. Balcony."[Contet, Frédéric *Masterpieces of Eighteenth-Century French Ironwork: With Over 300 Illustrations*. Dover Publications, 2004.]

23. "They had a few tins of Red Cross food laid in as a reserve, but Monty thought it would be a good idea to lay in a stock them as well. Bread would go mouldy in a day. There was nothing else save potatoes; they were better than nothing and, thought Monty, they would pre vent starvation. Thus, if the chapel was dosed by way of a reprisal for some offence against the Reich for a month or longer, the ghosts would survive long enough for Dick and Monty to evolve a plan to extract them and at the same time obviate their disclosure."[Reid, P R *Escape from Colditz : the two classic escape stories*. Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1952.]

24. "Also, comments were made by respondents with disabilities regarding insufficient training and ability of their assigned ‘buddy’ to help them during the incident. Only 3 % of the occupants used elevators for evacuation and the rest of the population (including occupants with disabilities) used the exit stairs for evacuation. Evacuation trends on stairs Most occupants used the exit stairs to evacuate the building during this fire incident."[Kuligowski, Erica D., and Bryan L. Hoskins *Occupant Behavior in a High-rise Office Building Fire*. National Institute of Standards and Technology, 2010.]

25. "idea was to make a vertical shaft which would the tunnel up to the grass. I would construct a trap bring door which would be covered with grass and yet would open when required, thus repeating my Laufen idea of having the escape tunnel intact for further use. Escapes involved such an immense amount of labour, sometimes only to serve in the escape of one or two men, that it was always worth while attempting to leave the escape exit ready for future use."[Reid, P R *Escape from Colditz : the two classic escape stories*. Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1952.]