Created: 2025-12-26 17:58:16
Origin: suggested
Selected: The signiﬁcance of a wall’s threshold qualities notwithstanding, a wall is empirically also a screen, or cover; a function of particular importance to medieval and premodern urban Arab-Muslim culture, with its traditional enclaustration and veiling of women.[O'Meara, Simon *Space and Muslim Urban Life: At the Limits of the Labyrinth of Fez (Culture and Civilization in the Middle East)*. 2007.]

--- Context List ---
01. "The signiﬁcance of a wall’s threshold qualities notwithstanding, a wall is empirically also a screen, or cover; a function of particular importance to medieval and premodern urban Arab-Muslim culture, with its traditional enclaustration and veiling of women."[O'Meara, Simon *Space and Muslim Urban Life: At the Limits of the Labyrinth of Fez (Culture and Civilization in the Middle East)*. 2007.]

02. "Before the widespread use of frame construction, requirements for light, ventilation, and views outside the building were met with apertures, built as openings in a wall. The limits of these openings afﬁrmed the wall’s tectonic and theoretical primacy. The frame changed all of that: windows ceased being openings in walls and became walls themselves. But when this occurred, the wall’s non-load-bearing functions had to be reconsidered."[Leatherbarrow, David, and Mohsen Mostafavi *Surface Architecture*. 2002.]

03. "wall 2001 As thin as possible: fantasy of the  two-dimensional wall, sketched in 3D by  SANAA for the Kunstlinie Almere,  Netherlands. PAGE 3 WALL The meaning of the wall is just as diverse as the uses of vertical surface can be, but there are at least two essential  functions: providing structure and dividing space. The two can be separated, and thus the category of 'wall' divides into  two: the bearing wall, separating roof from ground; and the partition wall, organizing movement within the resulting  container. The former, it would seem, is as stable as the human need for shelter; the latter as changeable as our forms  of sociability. "[INPUT: wall.pdf]

04. "Such a facade “indexes” the interior, though the elaboration of details may well disturb a facade’s basic indexical and, as such, denotative character, introducing not only formal but also connotative complexity and abundance. Of course, restraint may also carry connotative value, but that is an issue for a later chapter. This is clearly an ideal classiﬁcatory schema, since most Renaissance facades are semiotically composite and multiple."[Burroughs, Charles *The Italian Renaissance Palace Façade: Structures of Authority, Surfaces of Sense (Res Monographs in Anthropology and Aesthetics)*. 2002.]

05. "In similar fashion, the western Pillar (C17:13) is linked to west Wall 8012 by a connecting unit (C17:19). The result is a wall (W8015) that consists of four openings allowing for air and light to circulate from the central hall. The south face of the two units of Wall 8015 form a straight line and did not contain recesses as on the north face in Central Hall 804 (see above)."[Daviau, P. M. Michele, Paul-Eugene Dion, Ronald G. V. Hancock, David Hemsworth, Margaret A. Judd, Ryan Defonzo, and Douglas W. Schnurrenberger *Excavations at Tall Jawa, Jordan, Volume 1: The Iron Age Town*. Brill Academic Publishers, 2003.]

06. "As such, these balconies acknowledge the purposes fulﬁlled by apertures in traditional (thick) wall construction but in this case with thin, lightweight, and industrialized elements. Ironically, this incorporates aspects of the vertical window into its opposite; inhabitable space has been reinterpreted through an assembly of lightweight elements. This “wall” can be seen as inﬁll, window wall, and uniform plane."[Leatherbarrow, David, and Mohsen Mostafavi *Surface Architecture*. 2002.]

07. "The gradients occur across the wall between the insulation dry by allowing moisture to evap- building consists of a black base of integrally two zones. Adequate wall cavity airflow and orate. Mechanical shades located in this colored concrete supporting a monolithic drainage are not provided and the interior of cavity in front of any windows further reduce block enveloped by opaque, transparent, the wall is inaccessible."[Killory, Christine *Details in Contemporary Architecture*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2007.]

08. "To the interior, smooth wall inside-surfaces create pure interior space, while to the city, smooth wall outside-surfaces definite clear open spaces. So the designer abandoned all decoration on both sides of wall, try to create the atmosphere of pure spaces, in order to highlight the art works at the same time."[Yu, Jasmine *Museum Display Design*. Design Media Publishing Limited, 2012.]

09. "Although designers usually provide structural depth to façades using ribbed or discrete elements, as in the previous example, continuous structure like an undulating wall presents other possibilities. If folded or curved in plan, the structural depth and the stability and strength normal to the plane of a wall increase. Such a wall can therefore be understood as a vertically cantilevered folded-plate when resisting face loads."[Charleson, Andrew *Structure As Architecture: A Source Book For Architects And Structural Engineers*. Architectural Press, 2005.]

10. "Functional Analysis of the ‘Wavy’ Enclosure Wall."[Wright, G.R.H. *Ancient Building Technology, Volume 3: Construction (2 vols.)*. Brill, 2009.]

11. "In the context of this chapter, shaping a wall in plan presents opportunities for architectural enrichment, as illustrated at the Mönchengladbach Museum. Highly regarded for the qualities of its interior spaces and urban setting, an exterior gallery wall undulates (Fig. 4. 10). The sinuous wall imbues one gallery interior with special character and outside, the wall’s serpentine geometry appears as a natural extension of the curvilinear paths and brick walls that lead up the hillside to the museum."[Charleson, Andrew *Structure As Architecture: A Source Book For Architects And Structural Engineers*. Architectural Press, 2005.]

12. "This occurs when a window opening creates a divide within the wall section, similar to a control joint in a floor slab. As the wall shrinks, the wall section on either side of the opening behaves as unit. As the wall sections attempt to pull away from the opening, stress builds up along the precast lintel that is bridging the two wall sections. This condition results in horizontal friction or shearing of the mortar between the wall and the precast lintel."[de Leon, Diaz, and Alicia E *Forensic Engineering 2015 : performance of the built environment : proceedings of the Seventh Congress on Forensic Engineering, November 15-18, 2015, Miami, Florida*. American Society of Civil Engineers, 2015.]

13. "Hallway and special designed wall 3. Dusk view of façade 4."[Yu, Jasmine *Museum Display Design*. Design Media Publishing Limited, 2012.]

14. "between the outer wall and the inner struc- ally without compromising adjacent portions There are two frit patterns on the inner and tural wall where the thermal barrier is of the exterior wall assembly. Wall cavities outer skins allowing varying levels of light located. This buffer zone helps to moderate remain dry, insulated, and corrosion free."[Killory, Christine *Details in Contemporary Architecture*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2007.]

15. "To a certain extent, this characterization is based on the assumption that Wall 7025 not only marks the east end of the room but also of the building. This judgement is based on the fact that Wall 7025 bonds with outer South Wall 7026, even though it could not be ascertained whether both walls are footed on Bedrock D31:36; bedrock was only exposed below north Wall 7024, which also bonds with Wall 7025."[Daviau, P. M. Michele, Paul-Eugene Dion, Ronald G. V. Hancock, David Hemsworth, Margaret A. Judd, Ryan Defonzo, and Douglas W. Schnurrenberger *Excavations at Tall Jawa, Jordan, Volume 1: The Iron Age Town*. Brill Academic Publishers, 2003.]

16. "This necropolis, brought to near artistic perfection by its builders and craftsmen, is the famous “Saadien Tombs,” sealed off from view until the early-twentieth century. Nowadays indissociable from the qibla wall, the mihrab is commonly a mosque’s most ornate element, located neither before nor behind the qibla wall, but within it. 23 Most frequently in the form of a recessed, arcuated niche, the mihrab is thought by some to signify an absent presence: that of the Prophet as Imam. 24 Ambiguous, because presence and absence at once co-exist, this signiﬁcation draws upon the mihrab’s location within the liminal, equally ambiguous qibla wall. 25 An alternative signiﬁcation, as proposed by Clevenot again, is that of a door inviting the believer to traverse the wall and pass beyond immediate reality. 26 This interpretation, too, draws upon the mihrab’s location within qibla wall, for without the wall, there would be no door for traversal."[O'Meara, Simon *Space and Muslim Urban Life: At the Limits of the Labyrinth of Fez (Culture and Civilization in the Middle East)*. 2007.]

17. "PAGE 20 WOVEN WALL The ur-wall is not, according to  19th century architectural theorist  Gottfried Semper, a mud or stone  line of enormous and reassuring  heft, but an artful, woven partition.  Hanging loosely, perhaps flapping,  the woven screen generates-   and, crucially, symbolizes -   the division and organization of  activities within the primitive dwelling. The woven "wall" is an enabler  of civilization; the thick structural  wall merely a defender of it. "[INPUT: wall.pdf]

18. "Wall box dimming Popular in residential applications and commercial spaces where flexibility in illumination levels is desired. Incandescent dimming is inexpensive and simple to apply. Plate controls include linear slide, rotary, and touch. Wall chase A square or rectangular recess in a wall to accommodate pipes, heating ducts, and similar equipment. Wall column See Column Wall cornice A cornice at the top of a masonry wall."[Ernest., Burden *Illustrated Dictionary of Architecture*. 2017.]

19. "Wall washing or grazing is the use of lights to emphasize a textured surface, such as stucco, stone, or brick. Simple uplighting played on a painted wall can add mood to the room even when the wall doesn’t have much texture. Recessed low-voltage fixtures with halogen lamps cast a bright, sharply contrasting light without being obvious themselves. But accent lighting also can come in the form of low-profile fluorescent tubes set into shallow recesses beneath a mirror or even under a vanity."[Works, Word *New bathroom ideas that work*. Place of publication not identified: Taunton Press, 2013.]

20. "This research tries to obtain a reliable evaluation from an experimental programme on masonry wall components and wall system. The structural behaviour of the stone masonry wall depends very much on the mechanical characteristics of its components, namely the stone and the mortar. Furthermore, the structure of the wall such as single leaf, double-leaf of cavity wall with rubble infill significantly affects its load capacity and failure mode."[(ed.), S. Syngellakis *Heritage Masonry: Materials and Structures*. WIT Press, 2013.]

21. "It also exhibits the vertical structuring of interior space, not only by means of lines of windows, but also through a sophisticated architectural articulation that suggests a hierarchical ranking, especially of the middle ﬂoor over the ground ﬂoor. 15 Though the formal means differ, the effect of hierarchical stucturing is quite typical of Renaissance facades, though rarely as a transparent representation of social structure within the household."[Burroughs, Charles *The Italian Renaissance Palace Façade: Structures of Authority, Surfaces of Sense (Res Monographs in Anthropology and Aesthetics)*. 2002.]

22. "Yet, wall C integrates the remains of a remarkable, obviously even earlier structure (Wall C1), most of which had already been destroyed or dismantled when the construction of wall C was started. Here, we get a glimpse of the concepts of a medieval “building in the historical context”. 3. 2 Definition of structural criteria for masonry of wall C1 The question of when Wall C1 could have been built cannot be answered in Baku itself, since no directly comparable constructions or construction techniques have been discovered here so far."[Le Brun, Nicolas *Building knowledge, construction history. 2 vols. Proceedings of the 6th International Congress on Construction History (6ICCH 2018), July 9-13, 2018, Brussels, Belgium*. London: CRC Press (U.K.), 2018.]

23. "[16, 17] This wall is the line of support where many of the transfer beams mentioned above terminate and ﬁnd bearing surface. The wall is approximately 7. 5 meters long. At the bottom portion of this wall is a bookcase, a low horizontal wood unit measuring approximately 1. 12 meters high by 5 meters in length, sheathed with sliding glass doors. [18] The bookcase is not on the wall, but recessed so that it consumes virtually the entire depth of the wall, the front face of the woodwork set perfectly ﬂush with the wall’s plaster ﬁnish."[Kleinman, Kent, and Leslie Van Duzer *Mies van der Rohe's Krefeld Villas*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2005.]

24. "II) WALLS A) Function 1. Barrier Wall 2. Terrace Wall 3· "House" Wall B) Structure I. Stone: Megalithic, Rubble, Ashlar, Ashlar framed rubble SHECHEM cobble stiffening wood reinforcing unclear functional analysis jERICHO 392 CONSTRUCTION 2. Mudbrick: Bonding, reinforcing, combination with stone 3· Wood: Reinforcing,framing, cladding C) Aspect I. Vertical Articulation: foot, socle, face, crowning 2."[Wright, G.R.H. *Ancient Building in South Syria and Palestine*. Leiden: Brill, 1985.]

25. "Cant wall See Wall Cant window See Window Cantilever A structural member or any other element projecting beyond its supporting wall or column and weighted at one end to carry a proportionate weight on the projecting end. Cantilever retaining wall See Wall Cantilevered Refers to forms that have rigid structural members or surfaces that project significantly beyond their vertical support."[Ernest., Burden *Illustrated Dictionary of Architecture*. 2017.]