Created: 2025-12-27 14:02:44
Origin: searched
Selected: Our body’s matter mounts upon the stairs’ matter. We are both worn. We rise by some internal persistence that corresponds to the intemality of the function that keeps the stairs in perpetual tension. The stairs are ready for us. Their readiness draws us to them. We are ready for the stairs. Our readiness opens them to our participation. Since we have the potentiality of climbing stairs, and an intention to do so, the stairs give The Ruin as l unction PI.[Ginsberg, Robert *The Aesthetics of Ruins: Illustrated by the Author*. Rodopi, 2004.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Our body’s matter mounts upon the stairs’ matter. We are both worn. We rise by some internal persistence that corresponds to the intemality of the function that keeps the stairs in perpetual tension. The stairs are ready for us. Their readiness draws us to them. We are ready for the stairs. Our readiness opens them to our participation. Since we have the potentiality of climbing stairs, and an intention to do so, the stairs give The Ruin as l unction PI."[Ginsberg, Robert *The Aesthetics of Ruins: Illustrated by the Author*. Rodopi, 2004.]

02. "PAGE 228 STAIR 14. 1996 Spiritual stairs between earth and heaven STAIR PAGE 229 STAIR PAGE 230 15. 1999  Gothic and Renaissance stairs The premise for this research was the idea  that a new feel for life intrinsically had to  produce new products, that alongside the  emergence of a new architecture, new  stairs would arise. The stairs form part of valuable haptic  experiences. Among all the building  components, they reflect most accurately  the habits of its users. An examination of  their original texture and their consequent  changes may allow for conclusions to be  drawn, which can answer the question  raised above regarding the time when  lifestyles changed. In order to obtain the  most convincing results possible, this  general question is broken down into  14 sub-items: "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

03. "H o w e ve r, once the tread is of sufficient  depth/ and in order to allow the stair  user to step pro- and regressively  without falling into a potentially  dangerous monotony, it is appropriate  to modify Baumler's idea. A first variant is proposed by the  Centre for Stair Research. It maintains  all treads of one flight at the same  depth. This, combined with differential  riser heights, results in challenging the  stair user with changing lengths of  step, which activates their reactions. The basic premise of this thought is  that, when climbing a stair, the length  of step is more essential than the effort  of shifting one's weight up or down  the stairs. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

04. "The nineteenth century saw the development of new and stronger structural materials, and the pace of change gave no opportunity for designs in these materials to be developed by trial and error. That led directly to the involvement of engineers in stair design, since their skills provided a means of designing stairs economically in new materials using mathematical calculations, which was quicker and cheaper than allowing new designs to evolve by rule of thumb."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

05. "Some people still protest that such a distinction should still be made – that the word ‘staircase’ should mean the enclosure and not the stair. However, this definition does not reflect either the OED or common usage. As the OED admits, the word staircase is now (and has been for some time) used to mean ‘a flight of stairs or sometimes a whole series of flights of stairs with their supporting framework, balusters etc. ’ This book will follow the OED definition and the general understanding, that a staircase means the whole, made up of stairs, balusters, handrails, etc."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

06. "Applications for the copyright holder's written permission to reproduce any part of this publication should be addressed to the publishers British Library Cataloguing in Publication Data Blanc, Sylvia Stairs. ± 2nd ed. 1. Staircases 2. Stairs I. Title II. Blanc, Alan 721. 8 0 32 Library of Congress Cataloguing in Publication Data A catalogue record for this book is available from the Library of Congress ISBN 0 7506 4846 5 Printed and bound in Great Britain Contents Foreword vii 1 Introduction 1 2 Civic and public stairs 3 Commercial stairs 4 Domestic stairs 5 External stairs 5 29 47 70 6 Detailed construction: timber 92 7 Detailed construction: iron, steel and other metals 114 8 Concrete stairs 136 9 Stonework and composite construction 151 10 Design codes and procedures 11 Elevators and mechanical circulation 178 12 International case studies 13 Case studies in the UK Epilogue Index 230 231 200 213 158 This Page Intentionally Left Blank Foreword It is cause for wonderment that the seemingly mundane device de®ned as `a means of passing from one level to another by increments, more or less comforable ± the vertical measures known as risers and the horizontal goings as treads' has, through history, generated such richly charged cultural and technical invention."[Blanc, Sylvia, and Alan Blanc *Stairs, Second Edition*. Architectural Press, 2001.]

07. "How dull, in contrast, are intact stairs who stand with ease, paying no attention to the perfect state of their matter. Such stairs rise despite their steps. The function transcends the material. The material is instrumental to an overriding activity that pursues its goal without noticeable difficulty. A flight of stairs is but of fleeting interest, unless it is a new and remarkable form."[Ginsberg, Robert *The Aesthetics of Ruins: Illustrated by the Author*. Rodopi, 2004.]

08. "The elevated moving stairs and exciting lifts create a new art form (Figures 3. 18a and 3. 18b). The success rests upon the innate curiosity of people to ascend and move to brighter elements in the interior. Vertigo is combated by tinted glass balustrades, ledges and high-level handrailing. 3. 2 Accommodation stairs Accommodation stairs are de®ned as additional or amenity stairs in excess of means of escape provisions."[Blanc, Sylvia, and Alan Blanc *Stairs, Second Edition*. Architectural Press, 2001.]

09. "This type of construction takes a bit more expertise and time, but it pays big rewards in a graceful appearance far beyond what you would expect on such a modest deck. In fact, the scalloped edge is what brings this deck to life, and the stairs are a big part of that flair. The best deck stairs integrate with the design so that the eye doesn’t even necessarily read the steps as steps."[Peterson, Chris *Deck ideas you can use: creative deck designs for every home & yard*. Minneapolis, Minn: Creative Publishing international, 2011.]

10. "A few studies were conducted in laboratory settings on specially constructed stair sections where the geometries and stair angle could be varied systematically. Templer himself conducted several of these studies, including some at NBS. Most of the studies reviewed concluded that the measure of Total Energy Cost per Meter Rise is a useful metric for the evaluation of stair design for normal use and comfort; however stair safety is more closely related to the likelihood of missteps which is a function of how the stair relates to the human gait."[Bukowski, Richard W. *Emergency Egress From Buildings*. National Institute of Standards and Technology, 2009.]

11. "That is why the designer of this composite deck interrupted the staircase with a landing halfway down the run. Landings add a more inviting perspective to the deck, and make it much more comfortable to climb the stairs. Wraparound stairs, such as these, make the deck more accessible, as well. Railings Contrast is one of the most powerful ways to make deck railings stand out."[Peterson, Chris *Deck ideas you can use: creative deck designs for every home & yard*. Minneapolis, Minn: Creative Publishing international, 2011.]

12. "The likelihood of the agents to wait in a queue is determined by their patience coefficient. The model permits to represent the interactions between horizontal and vertical components. Stairs in STEPS There are two different methods to simulate stairs in STEPS. A possible method is the use of the stair menu (see Fig. 4. 24). This menu permits to define the geometric characteristics of the stairs (e. g. , width, height, handrails, walking side, etc."[Ronchi, Enrico, and Daniel Nilsson (auth.) *Assessment of Total Evacuation Systems for Tall Buildings*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2014.]

13. "1985; Shields et al. 2009) times were given on a per floor basis. However most of the authors instead calculated speed based on a measured distance within the stairs. When descending stairs in a high-rise building, travel distance in stairs needs to include both travel on landings and treads. The differences in the studies regarding travel distance stemmed from which components were included and, if included, how the travel distance was calculated."[Hoskins, Bryan L., and James A. Milke (auth.) *Study of Movement Speeds Down Stairs*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2013.]

14. "RIGHT This is the perfect example of how a strong colour can be used in one space to make another space adjacent to it feel lighter and bigger. The diminutive staircase appears much larger than it actually is because the walls of the hall leading to it are painted in a dark ‘Inchrya Blue’. ‘Hardwick White’ on the stairs themselves and ‘Pointing’ on the staircase walls serve to create an even greater sense of light and space."[Studholme, Joa, and Charlotte Cosby *Farrow & Ball How to Decorate: Transform Your Home with Paint & Paper*. Mitchell Beazley, 2016.]

15. "Every renovation, new addition, or new building should be conceived and designed with this in mind. In this way, potential donors can become involved, ensuring a meaningful fit between donor, setting, and mode of expression."[Verdeber, Stephen F., and Ben J. Refuerzo *Innovations in Hospice Architecture*. Taylor & Francis, 2006.]

16. "Milke, Study of Movement Speeds Down Stairs, SpringerBriefs in Fire, DOI 10. 1007/978-1-4614-3973-8_4, © The Author(s) 2013 29 30 4 Summary References Hoskins BL (2011) The effects of interactions and individual characteristics on egress down stairs."[Hoskins, Bryan L., and James A. Milke (auth.) *Study of Movement Speeds Down Stairs*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2013.]

17. "It needs to be determined if 56 in stairs need double doors to prevent congestion, as this can be a significant cost issue in design. Stair Geometry Current requirements in the building codes reviewed are consistent with the research recommendations. Refuge Floors Horizontal transfer corridors designed as means of egress components shall be provided every 25 floors (generally on mechanical floors) to link all egress stairs and to provide the ability to safely move between stairs."[Bukowski, Richard W. *Emergency Egress From Buildings*. National Institute of Standards and Technology, 2009.]

18. "Stairs in Pathfinder Stairs are represented in Pathfinder through straight-run of steps. The model requires the input data about riser, tread and width (see Fig. 4. 21). In Pathfinder, the specified tread rise and run are the factors considered in the calculation, i. e. , the simulation is not dependent on the geometric slope of the stairs. Stairways denote areas where the maximum occupant speed is controlled by an alternate specific calculation."[Ronchi, Enrico, and Daniel Nilsson (auth.) *Assessment of Total Evacuation Systems for Tall Buildings*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2014.]

19. "A new conception of the general structure of a cycle could create a new version of the work. New versions that did not occur as a result of practical or other circumstantial reasons, but rather as a change of structural conception, are particularly important in the present book."[Milka, Anatoly P., and Esti Sheinberg *Rethinking J.S. Bach’s The Art of Fugue*. Routledge, 2016.]

20. "Stairs, Newel Posts Balusters Stair Railing. STAIRS, NEWEL POSTS, BALUSTERS, STAIR RAILING, ETC. Fig. 1182 Fig. 1183 Fig. 1184 Fig. 1185 Fig. 1186 Fig. 1187 Fig. 1188 Fig. 1189 DIRECTIONS NECESSARY FOR ORDERING STAIRS AND STAIR RAILING. When a flight of stairs is wanted, we should know the height of story from floor to floor, width of joists in second story, width and run of stairs, the size of cylinder, style of base used in the hall, with rough sketch showing about the shape of stairs wanted."[Blumer, Kuhn Stair Co. *Victorian Woodturnings and Woodwork*. Dover Publications, 2012.]

21. "One does not have to be much of an expert in architectural history to notice that new functions are initially always represented by architectural shapes which were not explicitly designed for it, although they obviously were considered appropriate for at least a couple of reasons. Since nothing new can ever be a ‘creatio ex nihilo,’ all architectural representation, even if it materializes a new function, uses already existing plans and forms, and is therefore rooted in one or more specific architectural traditions."[Mekking, Aart J.J., and Eric Roose *The Global Built Environment as a Representation of Realities: Why and How Architecture Should Be the Subject of Worldwide Comparison*. 2009.]

22. "Large apartments at ground floor level with direct access to a garden appeal to families, but also to senior citizens looking for a new type of home. Design and construction strategies that allow apartments to be combined at a later date if required frequently lead to new utilisation options. For example, two smaller apartments could be combined to form one large, shared apartment for several senior citizens – with two bathrooms (essential in such a situation)."[Heiss, Oliver *Barrier-Free Design*. Birkhäuser Architecture, 2010.]

23. "Having created an entire range of new architectural goals, life persistently demands new forms for their expression. "9 Public response to this small itemand the two apartment buildingswas so spirited that a letter condemning the new style was read at the next meeting of the Petersburg Society of Architects. This episode elicited a sympathetic, if facetious, defense of innovation in Nedelia stroitelia the following month: The attempt to enrich the decorative aspect of a building with new motifs, instead of those everyone is fed up withthe inevitable acanthus leaves on consoles (which very often fall on the heads of passersby), the false cornices, and the wretchedly sculpted, half-naked caryatids, born in the south and freezing to death without mercy under our skythese new attempts one can only welcome. 10 More seriously challenging the new style, "In the Struggle for Art" by V. Shmor in the March 1900 issue of Zodchii raised the question "style or fashion?""[Brumfield, William Craft *The Origins of Modernism in Russian Architecture*. University of California Press, 1991.]

24. "NECKING The post, generally square in section, which receives the balustrade hand-rail at a change of direction of a stair or landing; the central post or pillar of a spiral stair, often consisting of a series of drums carved integrally with the stair treads themselves. NEWEL A recess in a wall, often semi-circular in section, to accommodate a statue or other ornament."[(Auth.), Robert Chitham *The Classical Orders of Architecture*. Elsevier Ltd, Architectural Press, 1985.]

25. "It is only in modern times and the  1 0 th century that the opening created  by the enclosing stairs, has become  a tool for design. Its outline follows  contemporary and fashionable forms  °f ornamentation. blot only the stairs with its sequence  °f steps, and its balustrades, but also  the 'eye' of the stair received a new  Modern take. Master builders of winding stairs built before the baroque  were not yet ready to address the 'eye'  of the stairs in design terms. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]