Created: 2025-12-26 19:07:50
Origin: suggested
Selected: ✚ In smaller spaces, Waller recommends using furniture with delicate detailing: sofas and chairs with narrow arms and on raised legs. “Having the floor visible underneath the furniture creates the illusion of a larger space,” he says. ✚ “A pair of sofas or chairs facing each other might look lovely and symmetrical,” says Simpfendorfer, “but conversations flow better when people sit at right angles to – not opposite – each other.[*Australian House & Garden* 2017.]

--- Context List ---
01. "At the waiting area, the wood floor pattern breaks the normal long-running board pattern with cross-stitched short boards slowing the visitor down. In the lounge area a brick floor with a simple running bond pattern define the informal dining area. At the kitchen visitors walk on an antiqued hexagonal brick floor. Even in the bathrooms, a carefully considered large stone floor pattern support a larger series of discrete experiences that work overall to quietly engage the visitor into quiet contemplation."[Du (Editor), Darren *New Art Deco Style*. Design Media Publishing Ltd, 2011.]

02. "Then, there’s a simple neutral sisal rug on the floor, which adds texture, ties into the color of the beige floor squares, and adds a little calm to the room. Sofa: quiet. Also beigey. Pillows: mixture of quiet and “wow,” drawing from the other patterns, colors, and materials in the room to inform a balance of “wow” on an otherwise neutral piece. This might sound a little milquetoast at first glance, but then POP!"[Salway, Christina, and Monica Pedersen *Home improvement projects for the busy & broke: how to get your $h!t together and live like an adult*. Skyhorse Publishing, 2016.]

03. "The textural details of previous occupants are kept intact 4. There is a map-like pattern on the concrete floor 5. It is a space of pure white 6. Different areas have different lightings 1. 白色的墙壁从天花板一直延伸到地板 2. 顾客在等候时可以阅读杂志 3. 从前租户所留下的印记被原封不动地保留了下来 4. 水泥地面上有一块类似地图的图案 5. 这是一个纯白的空间 6. 不同区域的灯光不同 1 4 5 2 3 3 6 230 - 231 1. Reception 2. Waiting area 3. Cutting area 4."[Chang, Catherine *Beauty Salons*. Liaoning Science & Technology Publishing House, Profession Design Press, 2011.]

04. "✚ In smaller spaces, Waller recommends using furniture with delicate detailing: sofas and chairs with narrow arms and on raised legs. “Having the floor visible underneath the furniture creates the illusion of a larger space,” he says. ✚ “A pair of sofas or chairs facing each other might look lovely and symmetrical,” says Simpfendorfer, “but conversations flow better when people sit at right angles to – not opposite – each other."[*Australian House & Garden* 2017.]

05. "By the turn of the 18th century, they dictated room sizes and proportions, as in a four-mat, six-mat,  or eight-mat room. The module also determined the structural grid of the entire dwelling. In the postwar  housing crisis, minimal dwellings were expressed as tatami, and the modular unit has remained in PAGE 28 FLOOR The apparently solid floor (designed by Kingspan) becomes a secret cavity for hiding the building's support  systems, mostly wiring. The constant change implied by the open plan office requires a system for easy  adaptation hidden in the floor, formerly the most stable element, now another a symbol of impermanence. "[INPUT: floor.pdf]

06. "The walls are a large “plane. ” The sofa is a large “plane. ” The floor coverings and floor are large planes. My apartment might be a fun example to analyze . . . Our dining room and living room have zany painted floors—a deep beigey color coupled with a crisp white to make a wild, but not too wild, checkerboard floor. The walls pull from the white in the floor—a quiet “plane” in contrast with the “pop” of the painted floors."[Salway, Christina, and Monica Pedersen *Home improvement projects for the busy & broke: how to get your $h!t together and live like an adult*. Skyhorse Publishing, 2016.]

07. "But the Old English flor (1,000 AD), meaning floor, ground, pavement, and bottom (as in the bottom PAGE 8 FLOOR 2014 Featureless and soundless (except for sneakers, which squeak on it), an architecture office's expansive  gray rubber floor, by manufacturers Nora, provides the most neutral possible platform for work. of a lake), could be both an Indoor and an outdoor condition. 3 The threshing floor -  an outdoor floor  technology predating the ancients -  was a bit of hardened or paved ground for stamping, thrashing  or grinding grain, often located on high ground to catch the wind."[INPUT: floor.pdf]

08. "85). The treatment of the wood on the earlier chair is more regular, consistent, harmonious. The 84 Detail of a chair similar to the New York rocker (but with straight front posts). 85 Detail of chair in figure 83, showing rough notching made with router. ornamentation-almost understated-is sharply defined. Surface treatment of the later chair seems less clearly under Chester's control."[Jones, Michael Owen *Craftsman of the Cumberlands: Tradition and Creativity*. University Press of Kentucky, 2003.]

09. "Outside becomes in, inside becomes out. Lighting armatures and lighting levels were very important because of the function of the space, and soft lighting combines with natural materials to create a warm, welcoming feel. 在室内的表面设计中，马赛克、天然石材、木材、玻璃和镜 子等材料相互作用，打造出了一曲和谐的乐章。设计师精心 挑选了一些图案、海报和标语贴在墙面上，为空间增添了浪 漫的感觉。 2 1. Wood floor in cutting area creates a relaxing atmosphere 2."[Chang, Catherine *Beauty Salons*. Liaoning Science & Technology Publishing House, Profession Design Press, 2011.]

10. "The shiny surfaces of the Robert Kuo metal floor lamps and the taupe-lacquered coffee tables from kellyhoppen. com play against the matt walls and floor, while the bone-china pendant light by Jeremy Cole adds a fabulous spiky focal point. Another view of the same room shows how the subtle patterning of the herringbone oak floor, white mesh sheer curtains and custom-made table by Robert Kuo, which appears to be made from a stack of concentric discs, plays against the taupe silk drapes, matt walls and mohair-upholstered Holly Hunt Darder Wingback chairs."[Hoppen, Kelly *House of Hoppen: A Retrospective*. Jacqui Small, 2016.]

11. "The New Design chair, made of salvaged scraps of light and dark wood, was a six-slat rocking chair transformed into a seven-slat rocking chair (figs. 46-48). Earlier adventures in chairmaking for Chester were conceptualizing dining chairs (e. g. , fig. 30), a category that did not exist in Chester's tradition; making a settin' chair with a panel seat rather than a woven one (fig."[Jones, Michael Owen *Craftsman of the Cumberlands: Tradition and Creativity*. University Press of Kentucky, 2003.]

12. "130 New Art Deco Style 131 The chairs play the main decorative role in the restaurant. Each chair has a distinctive colour, which helps it become the focal point of the space. Particularly in a plain-coloured space, an intense visual contrast is formed. The pale green backdrop wall forms a sharp visual contrast with the mahogany furniture and the red floor."[Du (Editor), Darren *New Art Deco Style*. Design Media Publishing Ltd, 2011.]

13. "Matt burnt-orange velvet plays against the sheen of black sheepskin. The dark wood floor of this entrance hall is washed with warm light, while ceiling spots highlight the tan leather of the Christian Liaigre benches. Orange Squint chairs with taupe and black have a harmonious strength, perfect for this mezzanine library."[Hoppen, Kelly *House of Hoppen: A Retrospective*. Jacqui Small, 2016.]

14. "This dominates the early Dutch dining room, which is otherwise furnished with baroque-style tables, chairs and stool. Note extreme slant of table legs. (Courtesy, Sleepy Hollow Restorations) Collection of old furniture gracing the kitchen-dining room at Van Cortlandt Manor includes a country table dating from the second half of the 18th century. This exhibits a kind of structural bracing known only to the Hudson Valley."[Shea, John Gerald *Making authentic country furniture: with measured drawings of museum classics*. Canada., United States: Dover, 1993.]

15. "• Have spaces been made visually varied and interesting by using changing ceiling heights and soffit areas as well as nonrectangular spaces?• When appropriate, are rhythmic or sequential spatial experiences provided?• Are the proportions of walls and spaces esthetically pleasing?| 101 102 | Developing a Rough Floor Plan With the rough floor plan nearing completion, now is the time to test and evaluate its three-dimensional potential."[Karlen, Mark, and Rob Fleming *Space Planning Basics*. 4th ed. Wiley, 2016.]

16. "Exceptions to this would be rooms below ground level where damp could damage the timber, rooms which were likely to be wet due to their function, eg kitchens and sculleries, and some working class terraced housing built with clay block floors or stone flags. NB For more information on timber see Chapter 11- Timber-Frame Housing. The floor (often referred to as a raised timber floor or suspended floor) consists of a series of joists supported by the loadbearing walls and covered with floorboards."[MBEng, Duncan Marshall BSc MCIOB, and Derek Worthing BSc Mphil MRICS *The Construction of Houses, Fourth Edition*. 4th ed. Estates Gazette Ltd, 2006.]

17. "The lower floor is covered with timber panelling."[MBEng, Duncan Marshall BSc MCIOB, and Derek Worthing BSc Mphil MRICS *The Construction of Houses, Fourth Edition*. 4th ed. Estates Gazette Ltd, 2006.]

18. "Old walnut planks make up the table from The Old Timber Table Company, Dallas. Once, the kitchens in most châteaux were servants﻿’ domains, hidden behind swinging doors on the ground floor, far from the dining room to avoid scattering fires and intrusive sounds and aromas—in short, places most would seldom go. Quite the opposite, today﻿’s open kitchen has become the new greeting room, an all-purpose space that rivals a Parisian café."[Phillips, Betty Lou, and Don Piassick *The French room*. Layton, UT, United States., France: Gibbs-Smith, 2008.]

19. "Table DIRECTOR Glass Block Operable Partition ADMIN. ASST. GUEST SUITE WOMEN Conf. Table MEN Soffit ASST. DIR. SEMINAR A/V Monitor Coat Hooks NINE INTERVIEW STATIONS WORK ROOM Sem’r Equip. RECEPTION Lit’r Rack WAITING VESTIBULE Light Shelve Above Illus. 6–11 Rough plan revised Revisions After going through the long and often difficult process to arrive at a revised rough floor plan, you may look at the result and believe that the current solution is too far removed from the best possible solution to consider it acceptable."[Karlen, Mark, and Rob Fleming *Space Planning Basics*. 4th ed. Wiley, 2016.]

20. "2. 2b, or concrete or timber beams. The underside of the floor, including the floorbeams, and decorative treatment that may be applied to that side is called a ceiling. Alternatively, a ceiling may be a separate element, or membrane, placed below the sub floor and beams and usually supported by them. Figure 2. 2 shows flat, horizontal ceilings. The plenum, or space, between deck and ceiling below in Fig."[Merritt, Frederick S., and James Ambrose (auth.) *Building Engineering and Systems Design*. Springer US, 1989.]

21. "Families liked to hang out around the courtyard and the nearby covered area called the exedra (kind of a covered porch). The main area of the house was used for entertaining. This room was called the andron. It was like a dining room or banquet room. Greek men gathered here to eat and socialize. Mosaics, or designs made of ceramic tile, often covered the floor of this room."[Van Vleet, Carmella *Explore Ancient Greece!: 25 Great Projects, Activities, Experiments (Explore Your World series)*. Nomad Press, 2008.]

22. "The Poul Kjærholm PK22 chair in the bridge between the two houses. A Hans Wegner Valet chair sits beside a cylindrical form housing a functional bathroom in the bedroom. A Lucien Engels chair sits in a well-worn corner. The flash of red continues with a Maarten Van Severen Lounge Chair for Vitra in the attic bedroom. RONAN SULICH & MARGARET NOLAN TERRACE HOUSE ‘Living in a Victorian terrace means that space and scale are limited."[McCartney, Karen *The Alchemy of Things: Interiors Shaped by Curious Minds*. Allen & Unwin, 2018.]

23. "Each floor is supported at the base of one beam or truss and at the top of the adjoining beams or trusses. Consequently, the span of the floor is only half the spacing between the structural members. Hence, even with a thin floor deck, structural members can be widely spaced, with the result that fewer beams or trusses and columns are needed than for conventional construction."[Merritt, Frederick S., and James Ambrose (auth.) *Building Engineering and Systems Design*. Springer US, 1989.]

24. "à terre [ah tehr]—On the floor; refers to movements performed with the working leg touching the floor as opposed to in the air."[Kassing, Gayle *Beginning ballet*. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2013.]

25. "Figure 4 shows that the expressions contained in the seismic provisions of the UBC 1997 and ASCE/SEI 7-10 to determine floor accelerations for the design of nonstructural components are representative of the floor acceleration envelope. The term Ai /Ag represents the amplification of the floor acceleration with respect to the peak ground acceleration, and the term hi /hr represents the floor height divided by the roof height."[Lynn, Abraham C., and Robert Reitherman *AEI 2011 : building integration solutions : proceedings of the 2011 Architectural Engineering National Conference, March 30-April 2, 2011 Oakland, California*. Oakland, Calif.), Reston, Va: American Society of Civil Engineers, 2011.]