Created: 2025-12-19 02:45:30
Origin: suggested
Selected: Each word as it appears on paper takes on a fresh meaning, a literal meaning that is often unnoticed when dropped from the lips in careless conversation. I had a good command of language; I worked with the spoken language every day. To convey spoken ideas is very simple. If you don't know the exact words, a gesture will sometimes take the place of the word you need, and the listener will get the gist of your idea. But on paper, the exact word is needed, and I meant to get through. . . The next ten hours were the most gratifying hours, and the hardest hours I ever worked.[Willeford, Charles *The Woman Chaser*. Thunder's Mouth Press, 2001.]

--- Context List ---
01. "It is not an abstract concept, and its qualities cannot be described generally or schematically. It cannot be associated reliably with the way we speak or breathe. Nor can its function be understood merely from its visual appearance on the page. ” Printed books altered our relationship to poetry by allowing us to see the lines more readily. What new challenges do electronic reading devices pose?In a printed book, the width of the page and the size of the type are fixed. Usually, because the page is wide enough and the type small enough, a line of poetry fits comfortably on the page: What you see is what you’re supposed to hear as a unit of sound."[John Ashbery [Ashbery, John] *Can You Hear, Bird: Poems*. Open Road Media, 2014.]

02. "Michael is twenty-three years old. He has been a computer primer in this interface crew for eleven years. By now the work is purely automatic for him; he has become simply an extension of the machinery. Drifting along the interface, he boosts or drains, shunts or couples, blends or splits, meeting every need of the computer he serves, and does it all in cool mindless efficiency, operating on reflex alone. There is nothing reprehensible about this. It is not desirable for a primer to think, merely to act correctly; even here in the fifth century of computer technology the human brain is still given a high rating for its information-handling capacity per cubic centimeter, and a properly trained interface crew is in effect a group of ten of these excellent little organically grown computers jacked into the main unit."[Silverberg, Robert *The World Inside*. Doubleday & Co. Inc., 1971.]

03. "But unlike a printed book, which is stable, an ebook is a shape-shifter. Electronic type may be reflowed across a galaxy of applications and interfaces, across a variety of screens, from phone to tablet to computer. And because the reader of an ebook is empowered to change the size of the type, a poem’s original lineation may seem to be altered in many different ways. As the size of the type increases, the likelihood of any given line running over increases. Our typesetting standard for poetry is designed to register that when a line of poetry exceeds the width of the screen, the resulting run-over line should be indented, as it might be in a printed book."[John Ashbery [Ashbery, John] *Can You Hear, Bird: Poems*. Open Road Media, 2014.]

04. "Taka Ouellette's awed appreciation of proline as a metabolic catalyst will probably be a little behind the times by mid-century, since Movassaghi and Jacobsen have already pointed out the potential of such simple molecules to act as enzymes22. The Chemistry of Character Some readers may wonder if I have trouble distinguishing between personality and neurochemistry. It's a fair point, but don't blame me: blame the scientists who can't let a week go by without reporting yet more evidence that personality is just another word for biochemistry, albeit written in an exceedingly complex font (e. g."[Watts, Peter *Behemoth: B-Max & Seppuku*. Tor Books, 2004.]

05. "Each word as it appears on paper takes on a fresh meaning, a literal meaning that is often unnoticed when dropped from the lips in careless conversation. I had a good command of language; I worked with the spoken language every day. To convey spoken ideas is very simple. If you don't know the exact words, a gesture will sometimes take the place of the word you need, and the listener will get the gist of your idea. But on paper, the exact word is needed, and I meant to get through. . . The next ten hours were the most gratifying hours, and the hardest hours I ever worked."[Willeford, Charles *The Woman Chaser*. Thunder's Mouth Press, 2001.]

06. "Professionals and amateurs are hereby warned that this material, being fully protected under the Copyright Laws of the United States of America and all other countries of the Berne and Universal Copyright Conventions, is subject to a royalty. All rights, including but not limited to, professional, amateur, recording, motion picture, recitation, lecturing, public reading, radio and television broadcasting, and the rights of translation into foreign languages are expressly reserved. Particular emphasis is placed on the question of readings and all uses of this book by educational institutions, permission for which must be secured from the author’s representative: Patrick Herold, ICM Partners, 730 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10019, 212 556-5600."[Nelson, Richard *The Apple family : scenes from life in the country*. Rhinebeck (N.Y.): Theatre Communications Group, 2014.]

07. "THE WORK IS PROTECTED BY COPYRIGHT AND/OR OTHER APPLICABLE LAW. ANY USE OF THE WORK OTHER THAN AS AUTHORIZED UNDER THIS LICENSE OR COPYRIGHT LAW IS PROHIBITED. BY EXERCISING ANY RIGHTS TO THE WORK PROVIDED HERE, YOU ACCEPT AND AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE. THE LICENSOR GRANTS YOU THE RIGHTS CONTAINED HERE IN CONSIDERATION OF YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF SUCH TERMS AND CONDITIONS."[Watts, Peter *Behemoth: B-Max & Seppuku*. Tor Books, 2004.]

08. "Any Internet references contained in this work are current at publication time, but the publisher cannot guarantee that a specific reference will continue or be maintained. Please refer to the publisher’s website for links to current author websites."[Bodine, Michael D. *A Psychic’s Life: What It’s Really Like*. Llewellyn Publications, 2018.]

09. "Title. Book design by Marysarah Quinn This is a work of ﬁction. Names, characters, places, and incidents either are the product of the author’s imagination or are used ﬁctitiously, and any resemblance to actual persons, living or dead, businesses, companies, events, or locales is entirely coincidental. While the author has made every effort to provide accurate telephone numbers and Internet addresses at the time of publication, neither the publisher nor the author assumes any responsibility for errors, or for changes that occur after publication."[*The Front* Putnam Adult, 2008.]

10. "The process, the completion I found in hanging it up to dry, silently congratulating myself on a job well done. I know this is an abstraction of reality; that I need to work on appreciating the now in a more direct way, rather than living for a future now. This time, however, the darkroom was a million miles away. Confusion burst through my mind like an unpleasant climax, little mind-stars flaring as synapses screamed and spent their load. Love. Anger. Hate. Rage. Love."[Listi, Brad, Kristopher Young, Kate Holden, Tony O'Neill, Carlton Mellick III, and Bradley Sands *Falling From the Sky (Anthology)*. another sky press, 2007.]

11. "Work continued to be OK, if not riveting. Spurred on by my newfound positivity, I found the wherewithal to leave the YTS Training Centre, and got a new and interesting job at Northwick Park Hospital, working in occupational therapy. My role was to use computers to ascertain patients’ cognitive skills after they had suffered a head trauma or stroke, which is perhaps why the word ‘stroke’ still has such serious connotations for me."[Holland, Nigel *The 50 List – a Father's Heartfelt Message to his Daughter. Anything Is Possible*. HarperCollins Publishers;HarperCollins, 2013.]

12. "You'd be proud of me. BASTILLE Sudbury rose in the night like a luminous tumor. Its core glowed from within, faintly by dryback standards but bright as day to Lenie Clarke: a walled, claustrophobic cluster of refitted skyscrapers in an abandoned wasteland of suburbs and commercial zones. The static field was obvious by inference. The new buildings and the grafted retrofits, the galls of living space wedged into the gaps between buildings—all extended to the inner edge of the field and no further. Like metastasis constrained under glass, Sudbury had grown into a hemisphere."[Watts, Peter *Behemoth: B-Max & Seppuku*. Tor Books, 2004.]

13. "It's been suggested that they represent axes, and that this proves that these circles were not places of worship, but the focal points of a Cult of the Axe which existed in western Europe in neolithic times. Or the stones may have enclosed a marketplace, and the axial stone was the counter on which goods were traded. I have to say, though, that shopping seems an unlikely motive to me. Proponents of this undeniably imaginative theory make comparisons with shopping malls, which might be seen as the new temples."[McCarthy, Pete *McCarthy's Bar: A Journey of Discovery In Ireland*. Thomas Dunne Books, 2001.]

14. "Here is the place for the application of all the knowledge I have acquired. Time assumes another dimension now—work and absorption in the search for an answer. The world around me and my past seem far away and distorted, as if time and space were taffy being stretched and looped and twisted out of shape. The only real things are the cages and the mice and the lab equipment here on the fourth floor of the main building. There is no night or day. I've got to cram a lifetime of research into a few weeks."[Keyes, Daniel *Flowers for Algernon*. Mariner Books, 2005.]

15. "I notice the litter. An empty cider can stuffed into a privet hedge here, a screwed up chip wrapper in the gutter there, cigarette butts everywhere on the cracked, grey slabs. As I draw nearer still to the Project, the quantity and variety of this detritus grows. An abandoned shopping trolley half-on and half-off the kerb; fast food cartons; crushed-up fag packets. Beer cans: mostly cheap, strong lager, some stamped flat, others skittering and rolling around in the breeze. I stop at the driveway. The Project is an imposing building: three storeys high, it has ornate brickwork, a high, sloping roof and large stone gateposts."[Smith, Winston *Generation F*. Monday Books, 2011.]