Created: 2025-12-26 17:03:41
Origin: suggested
Selected: wall 2001 As thin as possible: fantasy of the  two-dimensional wall, sketched in 3D by  SANAA for the Kunstlinie Almere,  Netherlands. PAGE 3 WALL The meaning of the wall is just as diverse as the uses of vertical surface can be, but there are at least two essential  functions: providing structure and dividing space. The two can be separated, and thus the category of 'wall' divides into  two: the bearing wall, separating roof from ground; and the partition wall, organizing movement within the resulting  container. The former, it would seem, is as stable as the human need for shelter; the latter as changeable as our forms  of sociability. [INPUT: wall.pdf]

--- Context List ---
01. "wall 2001 As thin as possible: fantasy of the  two-dimensional wall, sketched in 3D by  SANAA for the Kunstlinie Almere,  Netherlands. PAGE 3 WALL The meaning of the wall is just as diverse as the uses of vertical surface can be, but there are at least two essential  functions: providing structure and dividing space. The two can be separated, and thus the category of 'wall' divides into  two: the bearing wall, separating roof from ground; and the partition wall, organizing movement within the resulting  container. The former, it would seem, is as stable as the human need for shelter; the latter as changeable as our forms  of sociability. "[INPUT: wall.pdf]

02. "PAGE 20 WOVEN WALL The ur-wall is not, according to  19th century architectural theorist  Gottfried Semper, a mud or stone  line of enormous and reassuring  heft, but an artful, woven partition.  Hanging loosely, perhaps flapping,  the woven screen generates-   and, crucially, symbolizes -   the division and organization of  activities within the primitive dwelling. The woven "wall" is an enabler  of civilization; the thick structural  wall merely a defender of it. "[INPUT: wall.pdf]

03. "At Viracochapampa the regularity with which galleries had horizontal rows of corbels suggests that here the purpose may have been predomi- nantly utilitarian. In one or two examples, such as the wall at If, their appearance on what seems to be an external wall is due to the fact that the companion wall of a former gallery has been obliterated by plowing and cultivation."[McCown, Theodore D. *Pre-Incaic Huamachuco: Survey and excavations in the region of Huamachuco and Cajabamba*. Berkeley, Los Angeles: University of California Press, 1945.]

04. "Unfortunately the cavity in the wall has to be closed where door and window openings are provided. This aspect will be considered further in the next chapter on Bonding and openings in walls. Additionally, where wall ties are used to strengthen the wall by binding together the external and internal leaves of masonry, there exists the opportunity for rainwater to cross the cavity via the wall ties."[Charlett, Andrew J., and Maybery-Thomas Craig *Fundamental Building Technology*. Spon Press, 2007.]

05. "How the lapse of time affects ownership and usage of the wall."[(auth.), Besim S. Hakim *Mediterranean Urbanism: Historic Urban / Building Rules and Processes*. Springer Netherlands, 2014.]

06. "He argued that structure is there within the wall, but the importance of the wall is the visible spatial enclosure."[Baydar, Gilsum *Negotiating Domesticity  Spatial productions of gender in modern architecture*. 2005.]

07. "In both areas it is possible that the leveling was antecedent to, and part of, the wall construction because in other sections of the defense wall the same arrangement is not conspicuous. Reference to ﬁgure 6, d, shows a series of many small rectangular and square houses forming what appears to have been a separate colony within the bend of the defense wall at that point."[McCown, Theodore D. *Pre-Incaic Huamachuco: Survey and excavations in the region of Huamachuco and Cajabamba*. Berkeley, Los Angeles: University of California Press, 1945.]

08. "The actual windows in the inner skin are not aligned with the five empty window openings in the outer wall. The difference 6 between the vertical rhythms of both walls emphasizes the phase shift 7 between both skins, allowing reading the outer wall as being the mask, the 8 inner wall as being the face behind it. 9 Skin and mask belong to different sets of signiﬁers but are suscep- 10 tible to a similar semiotic effect."[Baydar, Gilsum *Negotiating Domesticity  Spatial productions of gender in modern architecture*. 2005.]

09. "Sometimes you don’t have the inches to build a standard privacy wall for a toilet and still meet code. In those situations, a narrow partition wall can work well. It can also allow light from a nearby window to reach other parts of the room and add a decorative element. 156 f loors, wall s, w indows, and doors It’s not uncommon to find multiple materials on a wall, most often tile and paint."[Gold, Jamie *New Bathroom Idea Book*. Taunton Press, 2017.]

10. "Article (10) specifically instructs that if both parties are joint owners of a wall, then one party cannot rebuild it without the consent of the other owner. Article (18) embodies within it the concept of the right of prevention of a potential damage from a neighbor’s inclined wall. Articles (16) and (29) address what is allowed or disallowed on a party wall, such as building an oven on the wall and allowing the wall to support the stairs."[(auth.), Besim S. Hakim *Mediterranean Urbanism: Historic Urban / Building Rules and Processes*. Springer Netherlands, 2014.]

11. "EXTERIOR AND INTERIOR WALLS Figure 9. 33 shows a partial floor plan of the living room wall adjacent to the bedroom that begins as an exterior wall and turns into an interior wall. The problem reveals itself when we remove the slab, as seen in Figure 9. 34. Note that although the stem wall is not aligned, the plates are. If we align the foundation, the plates (sills) are out of alignment, resulting in a framing problem."[Wakita, Osamu A., Richard M. Linde, and Nagy R. Bakhoum *The Professional Practice of Architectural Working Drawings, 5th Edition*. 5th ed. Wiley, 2017.]

12. "lines we were with told that the yellow wall white lines running through- five length denotes that the build- its ing or and ruling white it mere caprice of the owner, a is building, special whether tinting out lines our asking whether this wall sur- belongs nected to, with, the or is directly con- Mikado, and that none but those of royal blood can have a yellow wall upon it, while the with any lines number of Fig. - 3^. — End of Wall."[Dresser, Christopher *Japan, Its Architecture, Art, And Art Manufactures*. Routledge, 2000.]

13. "Obviously the intention was to create the effect of vistas through the wall, such as later appeared in wall paintings of the Second Pompeian Style. The entrance to the kline chamber reflects the same concept. In this case, the wall is decorated with a small tetrastyle Ionic temple facade supporting a low pediment; this scheme recalls the facades of Macedonian tombs."[Fedak, Janos *Monumental Tombs of the Hellenistic Age: A Study of Selected Tombs from the Pre-Classical to the Early Imperial Era*. University of Toronto Press, Scholarly Publishing Division, 1990.]

14. "f loors, wall s, w indows, and doors 159 h o t t r e n d P O R C E L A I N WA L L S L A B S A N D S I S T E R E D C O M PA C T S U R FA C E S l arge, thin porcelain tile slabs have emerged in recent years as a stylish, low-maintenance wall covering that can handle moisture and daily use. Most of these are from Italy and Spain, where the factories have gotten increasingly sophis- pattern on the adjacent slab."[Gold, Jamie *New Bathroom Idea Book*. Taunton Press, 2017.]

15. "Essential legislation 29 There are four definitions of the term ‘party wall’ as follows: • a wall where neighbour owners are tenants in common • a wall which is divided longitudinally into strips, where each neighbour owns one strip • a wall belonging to one neighbour entirely but where the other neighbour has a right to continue use of it as a division wall between separately occupied properties or properties that can be separately occupied • a wall which is divided longitudinally into parts with each part being subject to an easement of support for the benefit of the other part It should be noted that a party wall does not always separate buildings."[Pitman, Phil *External Works, Roads and Drainage: A Practical Guide*. Spon Press, 2001.]

16. "Indeed some external finishes are placed over brickwork or blockwork walls in order to improve the weather resistance of the wall. External finishes do not, however, need to be impervious. 248 External wall finishes Appearance External wall finishes will, to a large extent, define the external appearance of the building."[Charlett, Andrew J., and Maybery-Thomas Craig *Fundamental Building Technology*. Spon Press, 2007.]

17. "Kosny and Desjarlais (1994) define a clear wall area as the part of the wall system free of thermal anomalies such as corners, window and door openings or joints with other structural elements. In the discussed case, because of the wood framing, the RSI 3. 5 (R20) wall becomes an RSI 3. 1 (R 17. 6) wall. Historically, the shift from extensive measurements of heat transmission through the structures (Pratt, 1969) to computer calculations (Kosny, 1995) was slow."[Bomberg, Mark, and Joseph W. Lstiburek *Spray polyurethane foam in external envelopes of buildings*. CRC Press, 1998.]

18. "Figure 8. 10 Corner at sill. Figure 8. 11 shows the pictorial intersection of an interior wall and an exterior wall, and a plan view of that same intersection. Figure 8. 11 Intersection of exterior wall in interior wall. Walls are not the only important elements in the framing process, of course. You must also consider the locations of doors and windows and the special framing they require."[Wakita, Osamu A., Richard M. Linde, and Nagy R. Bakhoum *The Professional Practice of Architectural Working Drawings, 5th Edition*. 5th ed. Wiley, 2017.]

19. "The joint in the brick veneer is wider than in the block backup wall. Therefore, a compressible filler is placed behind the backer rod, while the filler is not used in a block wall. The caulking in the block wall is used for aesthetic purposes only (Figure 55). Figures 56 and 57 present wall-window interface details where the continuity of the SPF air barrier is extended across the wall-window intersection with the use of the WAM membranes placed over the top of the block wall."[Bomberg, Mark, and Joseph W. Lstiburek *Spray polyurethane foam in external envelopes of buildings*. CRC Press, 1998.]

20. "2. 7 Party Wall etc. Act 1996 The Party Wall etc. Act 1996 came into force in July 1997 and applies to England and Wales including the Greater London area. The purpose of the Act is to define the rights between neighbours when one wants to develop land or premises where adjoining the boundary line between lands. The Act is administered by lay surveyors, known as party wall surveyors and who are appointed to ensure the provisions of the Act are administered with fairness between the parties involved."[Pitman, Phil *External Works, Roads and Drainage: A Practical Guide*. Spon Press, 2001.]

21. "(4) Air layer Compared to the single-layer wall (also known as a single leaf), the double-layer wall (also known as a double leaf) or even the multi-layer wall has the air layer that separates the wall into two or more leaves, and each of these leaves takes on different functions. In the cold climate zone, the outer leaves undertake the weatherproof and ventilation functions, while the inner leaves play their effects as the thermal insulation and water vapor barrier [4]."[Huang, Zujian *Application of Bamboo in Building Envelope*. Springer International Publishing, 2019.]

22. "Curtain wall: An exterior wall that supports no weight except its own and is attached to structural members of the building. ""Dead load: The permanent structural elements of the building. ""Demountable tension. wall: An interior partition that is built at a factory and held in place by "" Demising wall: Any partition used to separate one tenant space from another."[Piotrowski, Christine M *Designing commercial interiors*. 3rd ed. John Wiley & Sons, 2016.]

23. "brick, The trench once again wall imposing a brick and the sides of the divider wall. Now, as the weir wall stress by sliding outward brick grow and expand, on the Teflon slots in the wall, compressing thrust wall. wall the foam. against the wall from The designer will not however, upstream a single divider concrete the wall wall material If the two is sure to fall down wall can never be made liquid-tight."[Sheppard, W.Lee *corrosion and chemical resistant masonry materials handbook*. noyes, 1986.]

24. "a cavity wall or a drainage wall. This terminology derives from the way this type of system prevents water entry to the enclosed space. In a drainage wall, water that enters the exterior masonry wythe is permitted to run (drain) down the back face of that wythe (via the open collar joint or cavity) until it reaches a through-wall flashing system that collects the water and directs it to the exterior."[Jaffe, Rochelle C. *Masonry Instant Answers*. McGraw-Hill, 2004.]

25. "Walls as Bracing Figure 9. 31 Basic procedure for wall framing. The corner and intersecting wall details indicated in the middle drawing are shown in Figure 9. 30. JWBT418-09. indd 237 The wall sheathing, which is made of rigid panels (usually OSB), acts as permanent bracing for the walls and is applied as soon as possible after the wall is framed. Many builders apply sheathing to each wall while it still lies flat on the floor platform."[Allen, Edward, and Rob Thallon *Fundamentals of Residential Construction*. 3rd ed. Hoboken, N.J: John Wiley and Sons, 2011.]