Created: 2025-12-27 14:41:31
Origin: suggested
Selected: Palladlan stairs are  always enclosed by  walls; visual cross-  connections are unthinkable. A spatial construct  created by stairs, the  creation of a stairwell,  was only achieved In  stairs winding around  large openings, stair  'eyes'. Palladio used Roman  stairs for his winding ^  stair, such as Bramantes  creation In the Vatican (1507-1514) and possibly also Raffael s  design for the Villa  Madama. " [INPUT: stair.pdf]

--- Context List ---
01. "It had grown absolutely dark; a bat fluttered against the broken glass of the window He heard music; far, curious music . . . very faint, very vague, but unmistakable. Like a flash of lightning came a jagged line of fire down the blank wall opposite him, a line that remained, that grew wider, that let a pale cold light into the room, showing him now all its details . . . and in the very middle, black against the curious Page 66 brightness [there stood Count Albert, the] ghost, or devil . . . [who] beckoned to him. . . ."[Shand-Tucci, Douglass, and Ralph Adams Cram *Boston Bohemia, 1881-1900: Ralph Adams Cram--Life and Architecture*. University of Massachusetts Press, 1995.]

02. "at the foot of the wall could not Damp 573 marks on the floor be covered easily. By dawn the wall was finished and professional touches had been applied. But, as the morning light pierced through the chinks in the tiles, they showed up a wall which did not look in the least like the original. The colour stuck out like a sore thumb. It was dark brown, uneven, and patchy with sooty streaks."[Reid, P R *Escape from Colditz : the two classic escape stories*. Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1952.]

03. "This has been achieved here by the trio of Arteinmotion pendant lights hung at varying heights, the backlit bookcases built into the specialist-plaster walls and the deep, contrasting bands of velvet on the floor-to-ceiling curtains. The design of my old living room was inspired by the glamour of black-and-white photography, with dramatic ebony-stained floorboards and a black glass fireplace wall contrasting with the wonderful white waxed plaster walls and white linen curtains with slim black runners."[Hoppen, Kelly *House of Hoppen: A Retrospective*. Jacqui Small, 2016.]

04. "The drama of doorways and light does not necessarily depend on an interior and an exterior. A wall in the landscape has one side in shade while the other is in sunlight. Passing through a door in such a wall is to pass from shade into sun, or vice versa. In the case of the walled garden at Edzell Castle, the passage from shade into light (see the photograph on p. 131) accompanies the passage from the exterior landscape into the carefully tended and geometrically organised garden inside the walls."[Unwin, Simon *Doorway*. Routledge, 2008.]

05. "These charming old windows, like many old casements, lack crank mechanisms and open like small doors. I . . . ~ ~- J --. . . . t- III ~ o -' IIII ~ o . . . . I « l) z ::> '" A clever device for getting more light into a kitchen along a wall that otherwise would be given over to a solid mass of wood cabinetry is to incorporate an inoperable window behind the upper cabinet, face it with a glass door, and then simply allow the daylight to shine through the window and the cabinet into the room."[Labau, Peter *The New Bungalow Kitchen*. Taunton Press, 2007.]

06. "This creates a feeling of openness and simplicity, and makes the perfect backdrop for displaying art. Many people are scared of using dark colours on woodwork, particularly windows, but it is amazing how natural it feels, even if the colour is strong. Ugly, small or plain trim disappears into the wall colour and you really only notice the shadow that it casts."[Studholme, Joa, and Charlotte Cosby *Farrow & Ball How to Decorate: Transform Your Home with Paint & Paper*. Mitchell Beazley, 2016.]

07. "The Wall was the touchstone of Jewish sorrow. When I was a child, it was called the Wailing Wall. Here the tears of a disbanded nation were shed, and here the Wall, in turn, was said to weep for its scattered people and its lost glory. Exudation of moisture in the insalubrious quarter may have accounted for the aqueous phenomenon. The broken Wall joined the broken-hearted in lamentation."[Ginsberg, Robert *The Aesthetics of Ruins: Illustrated by the Author*. Rodopi, 2004.]

08. "Museums The Burgoisie mid 20th PAGE 108 STAIR -  2. 1966 THE HISTORY OF GERMAN STAIRCASES geradläufige treppen straight stairs In the Middle Ages, straight-run  stairs were often hidden within thick  masonry. Yet in parallel, a staircase  along a passagew ay (G a n g tr e p p e )  developed, w hose walls did not have  any structural function anymore, merely  an enclosing one. The stair thus  became more utilitarian in plan. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

09. "During light density conditions, Hoskins (2011) found that occupants tended to stay to the inside of the stair. One study (Peacock et al. 2011) used a multiple regression model and found that which side of the stair occupants were on was significant in determining their movement speed. One author attempted to quantify the line-of-travel distance between occupants."[Hoskins, Bryan L., and James A. Milke (auth.) *Study of Movement Speeds Down Stairs*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2013.]

10. "The tower perpetually looks out in a way that the stairs cannot. The stairs take one step at a time. They cannot leap straight up to tower over us. The wall puts its will against space, holding back whatever is behind it from whatever it faces. Opposed to the tasks of stairs and tower, the wall walls. Walls refuse to surrender their identity to pure form, or for that matter, to pure matter."[Ginsberg, Robert *The Aesthetics of Ruins: Illustrated by the Author*. Rodopi, 2004.]

11. "(Opposite, top) Freund’s husband built this work table and attached it to the wall underneath the window. An antique chandelier and small task lamp add to the natural light. “I think the low ceilings create a cozy dollhouse-like feeling that brings out the playfulness in me and my visitors. ” (Opposite, bottom) Old printer trays make handy compartmental storage for jewelry materials."[Kotite, Erika *She sheds : a room of your own*. Cool Springs Press, 2017.]

12. "Some people still protest that such a distinction should still be made – that the word ‘staircase’ should mean the enclosure and not the stair. However, this definition does not reflect either the OED or common usage. As the OED admits, the word staircase is now (and has been for some time) used to mean ‘a flight of stairs or sometimes a whole series of flights of stairs with their supporting framework, balusters etc. ’ This book will follow the OED definition and the general understanding, that a staircase means the whole, made up of stairs, balusters, handrails, etc."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

13. "Many open-hall houses have three doorways leading from the hall to buttery, pantry and stair, and even if subsequently rebuilt the stair was clearly a straight flight against the wall. Downholland Hall near Ormskirk, Lancashire (Figure 2. 12, Chapter 2) has a straight wooden stair with a heavy plank string pierced with tracery, which is clearly Medieval, but such survivals are extremely rare. 1 Stokesay Castle, Shropshire, has an external stone stair to the parlour block and a remarkably long straight stair in the great hall (Figure 2. 9), with solid wooden treads, triangular in section, nailed to sloping bearers, and a grip handrail."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

14. "It is lit from beneath with uplights recessed into the black oak floorboards to highlight the surface and create a play of reflections. The surrounding joinery is high-gloss lacquered taupe eucalyptus. On the right is another wall in the same room, where a runner of specialist plaster in a herringbone finish, by Polidori Barbera, continues up the wall from a black oak floor runner set into polished taupe marble."[Hoppen, Kelly *House of Hoppen: A Retrospective*. Jacqui Small, 2016.]

15. "Also, counterflow was present in the stair with only the photoluminescent markings. Density was calculated for the average conditions in each stair during the busiest 3 min of the drill. The densities were 2. 05 persons/m2 (photoluminescent markings stair), 1. 00 persons/m2 (reduced emergency lighting and photoluminescent markings stair), 1. 23 persons/m2 (reduced emergency lighting stair), and 1. 30 persons/m2 (normal emergency lighting stair)."[Hoskins, Bryan L., and James A. Milke (auth.) *Study of Movement Speeds Down Stairs*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2013.]

16. "CREDENCE Why didn’t they want me?But why is your name on my adoption paper?IRMA I took you to Mrs. Barebone because she was supposed to look after you. NAGINI’S fear is increasing. ANGLE ON THE DARK WALL BEHIND SWATHES OF FABRIC. The perfectly camouflaged GRIMMSON emerges from the wall, raises his wand, aims for the silhouetted figures, and dispatches a Killing Curse that sears through the sheets and clothing, leaving smoldering holes."[[Rowling, J. K. Rowling, and J. K.] *Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald - the Original Screenplay*. Pottermore Publishing, 2018.]

17. "The elevated moving stairs and exciting lifts create a new art form (Figures 3. 18a and 3. 18b). The success rests upon the innate curiosity of people to ascend and move to brighter elements in the interior. Vertigo is combated by tinted glass balustrades, ledges and high-level handrailing. 3. 2 Accommodation stairs Accommodation stairs are de®ned as additional or amenity stairs in excess of means of escape provisions."[Blanc, Sylvia, and Alan Blanc *Stairs, Second Edition*. Architectural Press, 2001.]

18. "Not only will this make the room feel higher, but the eye will be led gently upwards, rather than being pulled dramatically towards the ceiling. If the wall is painted a strong red, then consider using warm ‘Joa’s White’ on the moulding, to bridge the gap between the wall colour and the ceiling colour. Contemporary ‘Mole’s Breath’ on the walls would call for ‘Ammonite’ on the moulding, and sunny ‘Yellow Ground’ would be best matched with ‘House White’."[Studholme, Joa, and Charlotte Cosby *Farrow & Ball How to Decorate: Transform Your Home with Paint & Paper*. Mitchell Beazley, 2016.]

19. "The shade does a good job of diffusing the light from the 60·watt bulbs inside. The pendant is positioned lower than normal, bringing the light closer to the sink and counter where it is most needed. 191 192 THE NEW BUNGALOW KITCHEN On the wall. Sconces are light fixtures that are wall mounted and often consist of a single bulb and shade, although many Arts and Crafts versions came with two, three, or more lights."[Labau, Peter *The New Bungalow Kitchen*. Taunton Press, 2007.]

20. "Voices from behind the walls, 1840–1945. Mary Elene Wood in her Ph. D thesis The writing on the wall: Autobiographies by women in American Mental institutions, 1868–1890 looks at the context and reasons behind such writings."[Piddock, Susan *A Space of Their Own: The Archaeology of Nineteenth Century Lunatic Asylums in Britain, South Australia and Tasmania*. Springer, 2007.]

21. "Palladlan stairs are  always enclosed by  walls; visual cross-  connections are unthinkable. A spatial construct  created by stairs, the  creation of a stairwell,  was only achieved In  stairs winding around  large openings, stair  'eyes'. Palladio used Roman  stairs for his winding ^  stair, such as Bramantes  creation In the Vatican (1507-1514) and possibly also Raffael s  design for the Villa  Madama. " "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

22. "(Opposite, top) Van Houten found these sweet muslin-clad light fixtures at IKEA. She uses three old chalkboards (which are actually part of the wall structure) as inspiration boards. (Opposite, bottom right) A self-proclaimed cupboard collector, Van Houten happily placed all of her treasures throughout the shed. Note the odd wood shapes that comprise the wall—Van Houten used old art projects and scrap."[Kotite, Erika *She sheds : a room of your own*. Cool Springs Press, 2017.]

23. "The ceihng was sponged with several colors oj interior k^tex flat wall paint, background glow jor the night sky) navy that to from light yellow (to provide a a combination of purple, white, and was gradually lightened as the sky flowed onto the wall. The completed sky was then sprinkled with gold leaf stars. (See also "Stenciled Interiors," pages 44-69, and "Stenciling a Ceiling," page 60. )"[Gauss, Jane *Stenciling techniques : a complete guide to traditional and contemporary designs for the home*. New York: Watson-Guptill Publications, 1995.]

24. "Very smooth textures may reflect so much light that they create a mirror effect. But deep, heavy textures absorb and distort light. As a result, a deeply textured white carpet appears much darker than a smooth white wall. Texture and pattern also have a relationship to scale, For example, walls made of large blocks of concrete might appear in scale in a large auditorium but out of scale in a small room of a home."[Н.М., Філіппова, and Смуглякова М.К. *Focus on Design. Part Two. Interior Design*. 2017.]

25. "Ha-Ha - this was a sunken trench which placed before a wall allowed that wall to be placed lower. This in turn allowed a view over the top of a wall while preventing escape. Table of Contents Preface . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Glossary. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CHAPTER 1. v vii A Space of Their Own ."[Piddock, Susan *A Space of Their Own: The Archaeology of Nineteenth Century Lunatic Asylums in Britain, South Australia and Tasmania*. Springer, 2007.]