Created: 2025-11-08 00:42:50
Origin: searched
Selected: Norman Fairclough has drawn attention to ‘the productivity of texts, to how texts can transform prior texts and restructure existing conventions (genres, discourses) to generate new ones’ (1992: 102). He uses the term intertextuality (adapted from Julia Kristeva’s coining of the term, see Kristeva 1986) to refer to the way that a text incorporates other texts, for example by quoting or alluding to them, and interdiscursivity to refer to the way in which a text may draw upon different discourse conventions, for example, a bank leaflet which mixes the discourses of advertising and financial regulation.[Maybin, Janet, and Joan Swann *The Routledge Companion to English Language Studies (Routledge Companions)*. 2009.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Harris’s integrationist theory of writing provides a vigorous solution that manages to clearly tease writing apart from the transcription of speech, which is just one of writing’s possible uses. Instead, writing is (re)aligned with spatial configurations in general (Harris, 1995). Postcard From Tunis presents an integrationist exploration of writing and its possible transformations at the human-computer interface. Pictures are not dominated by writing, as is so often the case in language learning and elsewhere, but instead the two are treated as complementary facets of one integrated form of communication, that is, spatial communication."[Toolan, Michael *Language Teaching: Integrational Linguistic Approaches (Routledge Advances in Communication and Linguistic Theory)*. 2008.]

02. "Through interacting with the work, users create a variety of different signs, which, like those in Postcard From Tunis, offer an experience of the integrationist view of writing, rather than simply information about it. Despite being expressed in a familiar script, the work again offers users an experience of the view of writing as spatial configurations and of no fi xed boundaries existing between writing and pictures. 118 Sally Pryor Figure 5. 6. Still from Postcards From Writing where rollover activity differentiates a written sign from a written form."[Toolan, Michael *Language Teaching: Integrational Linguistic Approaches (Routledge Advances in Communication and Linguistic Theory)*. 2008.]

03. "I applied this experience to the creative production of two innovative new media artworks: Postcard From Tunis (Pryor, 1997) and Postcards From Writing (Pryor, 2004). The artworks express an integrationist theory of communication, language and writing while also extending the theory into new media, in this case, interactive multimedia. The artworks creatively demonstrate that dynamic, multidimensional and reflexive signs can be created through human-computer interaction, particularly rollover interaction."[Toolan, Michael *Language Teaching: Integrational Linguistic Approaches (Routledge Advances in Communication and Linguistic Theory)*. 2008.]

04. "Here, the drama coincides with photography, and perhaps, technology at large. Somewhere near the sites where writing encounters experience, where the inescapable necessity of representation coincides with its breakdown, where theories dissolve themselves and perhaps not only themselves: sites of doubling, of repetition, entropy of exteriorisations (of mourning, as some might say). Reading aloud, underestimated and dismissed as it may be in Western culture, may allow another insight to writing, perhaps the strange, unheard-of experience of another, a siteless citing, while at once exposing it to its final dissolution."[Wood, John *The Virtual Embodied: Presence Practice Technology*. 1998.]

05. "These are so distinctive that film workers can learn to read the dialogue of a film simply from the reel of film itself. When the film is projected these visual images of the sounds once more turn into acoustic phenomena. This process opens up many possibilities for phonetic experimentation. A knowledge of the visual representation of each sound makes it possible to directly draw the speech and then to transform it, via film, into an audible phenomenon."[Jakobson, Roman *Jakobson: Six Lectures Sound & Meaning*. MIT Press, 1978.]

06. "Using a parallel corpus to study the encoding of motion events has several advantages (see Wälchli 2001a; Slobin 1996, 2005; Baicchi 2005 for similar approaches). First of all, using a parallel corpus is very suitable because motion events constitute a mostly lexical topic that is prevalent in natural language (Wälchli 2007: 128). In other words, parallel texts provide a bountiful source of motion descriptions. Secondly, the original text restricts the semantic primitives under study; i. e. the corpus consists of a finite set of linguistic Where Alice fell into: Motion events from a parallel corpus 337 expressions that are more or less equivalent."[Szmrecsanyi, Benedikt, and Bernhard Walchli *Aggregating Dialectology, Typology, and Register Analysis*. De Gruyter, 2014.]

07. "Approaches to discourse and dialogue do not appear systematic, but rather as a collection of solutions for different issues. The original systematic and coherent studies have shown that the phenomenon is much more complex than one may have originally thought, and several different aspects are being studied now. However, it is to be seen as a high priority topic, as the large amount of (textual) documents available in the Internet demands intelligent, flexible and effective programmes for text retrieval, text summarisation, and content extraction."[Van Sterkenburg, P. G. J., and Republique tcheque International congress of linguists 17 Prague *Linguistics Today: Facing A Greater Challenge*. 2004.]

08. "The longest text, the IPSL rendition of a theatre play, is seven minutes long whereas the shortest texts only consist of a few signs. Besides the passages reproduced in the main part of this book there is a longer coherent text transcription from the data in Appendix A. During the interviews I tried on the one hand to touch upon as many different topics as possible."[Zeshan, Ulrike *Sign Language in Indo-Pakistan: A Description of a Signed Language*. 2000.]

09. "While new technologies are creating greater opportunities for multimodal text and production, it is also acknowledged that written English has always had multimodal dimensions, through its use of particular fonts and scripts and visual decoration, for instance in illuminated manuscripts (Graddol 2007). 3. 5 ISSUES The ‘social turn’ in linguistics has been apparent in an increasing concern to consider discourse not simply as a matter of text, but as tied up with social practices."[Maybin, Janet, and Joan Swann *The Routledge Companion to English Language Studies (Routledge Companions)*. 2009.]

10. "Internet Relay Chat), instant messaging (ICQ, Yahoo!Instant Messenger), and graphical modes incorporating typed asynchronous and synchronous text (Second Life, Active Worlds). 1 These new modes of writing have spawned an academic specialty among linguists, sociologists, anthropologists, and communication researchers of ‘interactive written discourse’ (Ferrara et al. 1991), ‘electronic language’ (Collot and Belmore 1996), ‘Netspeak’ (Crystal 2006), or, most commonly, computer-mediated communication (CMC). 2 Compared to speech and to pre-digital writing, digital writing is, paradoxically, both doubly attenuated (diminished) and doubly enhanced (Figure 8. 1). 3 Digital text is attenuated because it lacks materiality."[Maybin, Janet, and Joan Swann *The Routledge Companion to English Language Studies (Routledge Companions)*. 2009.]

11. "At this stage, one consequence is that we have an ‘enriched’ corpus, from where – through usage of other tool types – we can acquire either more refined information at the same level of linguistic analysis or, more interestingly, information pertinent at another, ‘superior’, level of analysis. These information types can then be fed back into the lexicon which, still partial, nevertheless becomes richer and therefore able, in a successive implementation of this virtual circle, to achieve a deeper analysis of the corpus."[Van Sterkenburg, P. G. J., and Republique tcheque International congress of linguists 17 Prague *Linguistics Today: Facing A Greater Challenge*. 2004.]

12. "Norman Fairclough has drawn attention to ‘the productivity of texts, to how texts can transform prior texts and restructure existing conventions (genres, discourses) to generate new ones’ (1992: 102). He uses the term intertextuality (adapted from Julia Kristeva’s coining of the term, see Kristeva 1986) to refer to the way that a text incorporates other texts, for example by quoting or alluding to them, and interdiscursivity to refer to the way in which a text may draw upon different discourse conventions, for example, a bank leaflet which mixes the discourses of advertising and financial regulation."[Maybin, Janet, and Joan Swann *The Routledge Companion to English Language Studies (Routledge Companions)*. 2009.]

13. "The crucial question is: how typical is this example for the overall pattern of aspect use across Slavic?In order to abstract away from individual instances, the procedures outlined in Section 2. 2. above were applied: all nonconsistent examples were coded in a matrix of contexts intersected with language versions of the text and the overall differences between these versions were aggregated into a distance matrix. This was visualized in a neighbor net graph, shown in Figure 4. A further graph, shown in Figure 5, is based on Explorations into variation across Slavic: Taking a bottom-up approach 305 Figure 4."[Szmrecsanyi, Benedikt, and Bernhard Walchli *Aggregating Dialectology, Typology, and Register Analysis*. De Gruyter, 2014.]

14. "", excluding temporal reference as a structuring device, suggesting either an object-oriented organization or a structure which follows the spatial organization of the picture. The characteristics of the first text segment with respect to the referential movement correspond to what has been said for descriptive texts. The referential fillers show properties typical for this text type: the time reference is unspecified, and the predicates are all unbounded states. At the end of text CI the same picture emerges again."[Dietrich, Rainer, and Carl F Graumann *Language processing in social context*. North-Holland, 1989.]

15. "Li and Thompson 1976, Givon 1985). What has been said here about main structure utterances within narrative texts applies analogously to other text types, for example descriptive texts. In that case, the focus is not an event which happened to a protagonist, but rather, for example, specification of some spatial location, of some visual property, as in (3) above (cf. for a discussion of different text types: van Dijk 1977, Wer lieh 1979, Rehbein 1984). 2. 2 Domains of Reference within an Utterance Before turning to the constraints which the quaestio imposes on the "filling" of various domains of reference within an utterance, it is necessary to have a brief look at the interplay of linguistic meaning proper and contextual information within an utterance."[Dietrich, Rainer, and Carl F Graumann *Language processing in social context*. North-Holland, 1989.]