Created: 2025-12-28 21:38:23
Origin: searched
Selected: Often this decoration devolves entirely into an open filigree network. Second, the decorations are made plastic, under and not infrequently  over the glaze, with a slightly raised porcelain mass. True sculptures on handles, lids,  and feet are rare on the oldest porcelain, as they were in wood or metal. Third, they  were painted with colored enamel but applied pastose, relieflike, not in the quite different style of modern cassette enameling. The gemlike sheen of this hard Chinese porcelain enamel made with quartz has to be seen to be understood.[INPUT: Semper__Style_in_the_Technical_and_Tectonic_Arts_or_Practical_Aesthetics.pdf]

--- Context List ---
01. "Often this decoration devolves entirely into an open filigree network. Second, the decorations are made plastic, under and not infrequently  over the glaze, with a slightly raised porcelain mass. True sculptures on handles, lids,  and feet are rare on the oldest porcelain, as they were in wood or metal. Third, they  were painted with colored enamel but applied pastose, relieflike, not in the quite different style of modern cassette enameling. The gemlike sheen of this hard Chinese porcelain enamel made with quartz has to be seen to be understood."[INPUT: Semper__Style_in_the_Technical_and_Tectonic_Arts_or_Practical_Aesthetics.pdf]

02. "I have attempted also to preserve a certain regularity in the irregular forms while maintaining a severity in line and have made a letter which is individual and at times even presents willful traits that should enhance interest in the design. A criticism that is made of many types [and properly , too] is that their parentage is ill bred. I do not believe that criti. . , cism can fairly be made of the italics in the present fount. The next step was the preparation of the master and working patterns for cutting punches for the composition sizes, 8. . " 10. . " and 12'point, which were to be cast on the LanSton mono type machine."[Goudy, Frederic W. *Typologia: Studies in Type Design and Type Making*. University of California Press, 1978.]

03. "This is not a reﬂection of the rise of recycling as a moral and a political imperative. Rather, these works have made the signs of time into their theme in a quite Martin Margiela: Signs of Time 143 literal way. There are skirts made out of the kind of scarves that can be collected at a ﬂea market; clothes made out of old clothes which have been taken apart and then put back together again; pullovers made out of old stockings, in which the heels model the breasts and the elbows; inner-linings made out of cotton which still bears the traces of the hoof-like shoes of the models, dipped in red dye, from the last show."[Vinken, Barbara *Fashion Zeitgeist: Trends and Cycles in the Fashion System*. 2005.]

04. "Much has already been said about the relationship of Greco-Italic vases to  vessels in embossed sheet metal or cast metal. Certain ceramic products made  by the Egyptians, wrongly referred to as Egyptian porcelain, are closer to our  present subject. They are made of a very thin sandy paste —a kind of sand  conglomerate or rather a ceramic imitation of sandstone. This material was used to make idols, votive vessels, amulets, children’s  toys, and other objects, as a substitute for similar ones in metal and stone.  "[INPUT: Semper__Style_in_the_Technical_and_Tectonic_Arts_or_Practical_Aesthetics.pdf]

05. "As in the many works employing ‘Braunkreuz’, so the ‘idea’ of the hare was utilized or evoked in other pieces in which no actual image of the animal is evident. Hare’s Grave is made up of various bits junk and fat stuck to a board; Back Support for a Fine-limbed Person (Hare Type) of the 20th Century AD is an iron cast based upon a device made for a disabled child. Two of Beuys’s signature sculptural materials were fat and felt, the latter used with an awareness that much felt was made from hare fur."[Carnell, Simon *Hare*. Reaktion Books, 2010.]

06. "And when repairs were made it was also difficult to match the colour of replacement panels with the existing panels. This created a patchwork look that further undermined the rather sombre appearance of cuirasses made in this style. (Image courtesy of Thomas Del Mar Ltd. ) While the fusube-gawa façade did make it far more difficult to cut away a lamellar section with an edged weapon, in many ways the concept appears to have been rather shortsighted, for a damaged section of leather could also be quite troublesome and time-consuming to replace."[Absolon, Trevor *Samurai Armour, Volume I: The Japanese Cuirass*. Bloomsbury, 2017.]

07. "This point was made in 1941 in a catalogue written for the exhibition, Indian Art of the United States: The perfection of manufacturing processes in our own world has made it possible for us to force almost any raw material into any given shape—an achievement that has turned out to be of doubtful value in the hands of many ambitious but undiscriminating contemporaries. The Indian artist [in contrast, studies the] raw material in order to discover just what treatment will best utilize its inherent characteristics. 67 Contemporary craft has evolved from a similar heritage of “truth to materials,” in which work is made with respect for the natural qualities of each medium."[Fariello, Anna M *Cherokee basketry : from the hands of our elders*. Charleston, SC u.a., United States: Arcadia Publishing Inc.;The History Press, 2009.]

08. "Schedel borrowed the substance of many panoramas from the first large-scale printed woodcuts in Bernhard von Breydenbach’s recently published Peregrinatio in Terram Sanctam (Mainz, 1486). These prints were made from sketches of vedute made by Erhard Reuwich, an artist Breydenbach took along expressly for this purpose. Schedel himself sent no such far-flung emissaries out for the purpose of faithful recording of far-off prospects, but borrowed liberally from other books. Nor did he make grand claims to legitimacy in pictorial reportage."[(auth.), Stephanie Leitch *Mapping Ethnography in Early Modern Germany: New Worlds in Print Culture*. Palgrave Macmillan US, 2010.]

09. "Some chairs have woven seats, others are panel-bottom. Types and subtypes are traditional (not just the researcher's analytical constructs) when reflecting "native cognitive categories" and serving as models for craftsmen, thereby exhibiting, or testifying to the existence of, continuities and consistencies in human thought and behavior. Aaron's first settin' chair, for example, was closely patterned after a mule-eared chair made by a neighbor; Aaron conceived of it as typifying handmade rather than factory-made chairs, and therefore as traditional in form, material, and manufacture."[Jones, Michael Owen *Craftsman of the Cumberlands: Tradition and Creativity*. University Press of Kentucky, 2003.]

10. "So does the bent-kneed monk, the caballero, the Costa Rican banana cart. But the Honduran figures and the Guatemalan santo are very simple and untutored; I believe the carver made what he saw as well as he could make it. The Fiji head and the banana loader'are obviously made by skilled carvers, but they retain primitive strength and "differentness. "AH of these carvings except the Madonna and Child are made in soft wood, like our pine. The Madonna is in a hard and figured wood, and polished to a high gloss."[Tangerman, E. J. *1001 designs for whittling and woodcarvings*. Dover Publications, 1995.]

11. "Printed impressions on paper could not hope for trompe l’oeil trickery, and thus, set their claims to observed reality to different calibrations. But, far from thinking themselves hopelessly handicapped in describing empirical observations, prints clamored that they were made “from life. ” The framework for printed truths in this period was shaped by claims of accuracy made by a variety of printed genres."[(auth.), Stephanie Leitch *Mapping Ethnography in Early Modern Germany: New Worlds in Print Culture*. Palgrave Macmillan US, 2010.]

12. "Its shape, size and the richness and quality of the decoration depend on the period when it was made. Chests may be made of wood or completely covered in painted fabric or leather. In the case of wooden chests, the boards of which the chest was made were held together by strap hinges and flat metal bands and decorated with iron corner pieces and legs. Their lids are flat and hinged and they were locked using a padlock. If the chest was upholstered with fabric or leather, it was decorated with a great many studs arranged in repeating patterns and, here and there a copper or tin rosette decorated with perforations."[Bayard, Émile *The ABC of Style*. Parkstone International, 2012.]

13. "They also made smaller decorative items for clothing and accessories, using a variety of soft new foundation materials and threads made through natural, rather than chemical, processes. Art embroidery is the object of gentle satire in “Sweet Little Buttercup,” published in Punch Magazine on June 14, 1879 (see image). The scene is reminiscent of a famous painting by Botticelli, The Birth of Venus."[Ledbetter, Kathryn *Victorian needlework*. Santa Barbara, Calif., Great Britain: ABC CLIO;Praeger, 2012.]

14. "It is also possible that the men’ōchū, in at least some cases, was made entirely of fabric, particularly those items that were made for very low-ranking warriors. In lieu of armour plating, the men’ōchū could have simply been an extremely thick coat made from multiple layers of cloth that were sewn in a grid-like pattern that helped keep the overlapping fabrics evenly layered and in position. Support for this theory comes from the fact that padded-cloth men’ōchū-like forms of protective garment are known to have existed in China."[Absolon, Trevor *Samurai Armour, Volume I: The Japanese Cuirass*. Bloomsbury, 2017.]

15. "It is worth recalling that photographers of O’Sullivan’s day could be much kinder to the mining industry. Carleton Watkins made commercially commissioned photographs of western mines that brim with harmonious composure. As Joel Snyder has noted, Watkins’s picture of the Malakoff Diggins offered the impression that the industry was fundamentally consonant with natural forms and processes (ﬁg. 60). 123 William Henry Jackson also brought mining and landscape into aesthetic agreement. 124 Not surprisingly, the evidence suggests that General Humphreys was unhappy with the mining pictures O’Sullivan made in 1871."[Kelsey, Robin *Archive style : photographs & illustrations for U.S. surveys, 1850-1890*. Berkeley, United States: University of California Press, 2007.]

16. "‘So,’ said Paul, ‘You still believe in fairies?’ After a pause, they both replied, ‘Yes, we believe in fairies’. SCRIMSHAW CARVERS Scrimshaw, the collective name for decorative objects made by sailors – generally from waste materials associated with ships and the sea – makes regular appearances at Roadshows. Most common are the teeth and bones of whales engraved with scenes either of ship life or drawn from illustrated magazines, and made by sailors using hand-made tools. The long-established popularity of these has resulted in the widespread production of fakes and copies, and so definitive attribution of them on the programme can be challenging."[Atterbury, Paul, and Marc Allum *Antiques Roadshow: 40 Years of Great Finds*. William Collins, 2017.]

17. "In the may have overlooked the fact that my drawing trail off into light gray lines and will not reproduce. Rather than lose any spontaneity by redrawing, I have sometimes had a high contrast photograph or photostat made. This darkens the lines of the drawing, while retaining 36 its quality, and a good line plate can be made."[Hogarth, Paul *Creative Pencil Drawing*. Watson-Guptill Publications, 1981.]

18. "Wearing a crested button blanket with such a hat, a high-ranking person presented an image of great dignity and wealth. Although generally carved from hardwoods, these were occasionally made of yellow cedar. Similarly, a "frontlet," the often exquisitely carved plaque at the front of a northern chief's dance headdress, was occasionally made of yellow cedar. Generally inlaid with bright blue-green abalone shell, the frontlet was attached to a headband surmounted by walrus whiskers, sometimes with red-shafted flicker feathers adding to the colour."[Stewart, Hilary *Cedar : Tree of Life to the Northwest Coast Indians.*. Vancouver ; Seattle: Douglas & McIntyre ; University of Washington Press, 1995.]

19. "While this group covers a large number of kinetic toys made of various materials, we will concern ourselves with those made of paper and cardboard, possibly supported by a minor piece of wood, glass, or a mirror. The principle of operation of these toys is the phenomenon known as persistence of vision, meaning when an object is suddenly removed from the field of vision, the impression of its image is momentarily retained by the retina of the eye."[Whitton, Blair *Paper Toys of the World*. Hobby House Pr Inc, 1986.]

20. "Pynchon used the word tin to distinguish these metal mirrors from the glass mirrors he called either “looking glasses” or simply “glasses. ”11 Their unusual name—“tin glasses”—reminds us of the transition being made during this period from metal mirrors to glass mirrors. 12 The remaining 334 mirrors Pynchon supplied had reflective surfaces First Glimpses 31 made of glass."[Shrum, Rebecca K. *In the Looking Glass: Mirrors and Identity in Early America*. Johns Hopkins University Press, 2017.]

21. "The sheet prints made with cheaper paper and lower-quality production values were intended as one-offs, while The Mirror of Yoshiwara Beauties, Compared was a high-quality, expensive, and large-scale project. Their subjects, too, are shown in a manner appropriate to their formats, producing different engagements by the viewer. Koryūsai’s sheet print shows a public view of the yūjo on promenade, in the manner in which they paraded in the quarter; it looks like an advertisement, made in a format that could be pasted up for display."[Davis, Julie Nelson *Partners in Print: Artistic Collaboration and the Ukiyo-e Market*. University of Hawaii Press, 2014.]

22. "No consideration of Rajput painting could omit the cartoons for mural paintings made A typical example is the Krishna Dancing, a large coloured drawing in the Metropolitan Museum at New York (Plate 134A). This is a perat Jaipur in the eighteenth century. fect illustration of the timeless quahty of Hindu art. In its traditional aspect it might have been made for one of the Ajanta wall-paintings."[Rowland, Benjamin *The Art and Architecture of India - Buddhist, Hindu, Jain*. Penguin Books, 1954.]

23. "Photography by Olga Anikeeva. Courtesy of the Orenburg Governor’s Museum of Local Lore and History. b c d Three stenciling tools or markers were located under the pigment pouch (figs. 15. 9a– b)—two made of bone and one made of bronze. Marker 1 is slightly arched, circular in cross-section, with a pointed proximal end and a knob on the opposite tip (fig. 15. 9a). A succession of circular grooves is carved below the knob to facilitate handling and manipulation. Marker 2 has the same form but possesses fewer carved grooves (fig."[Krutak, Lars, and Aaron Deter-Wolf *Ancient Ink: The Archaeology of Tattooing*. Hardcover. University of Washington Press, 2017.]

24. "Mario Perniola claims that the metaphysical richness of the Christian tradition has made possible a wealth of erotic possibilities in the figurative arts. He argues that, because it drew on both the Hebrew tradition of the “glorious garment” (Perniola 1989: 237) and the classical one of the naked truth, Christianity “made the consummate representation of eroticism possible in the figurative arts” (p. 243)."[Barcan, Ruth *Nudity: A Cultural Anatomy*. Berg Publishers, 2004.]

25. "Is it possible, ask the authors, that the witches’ salves of past centuries were made of a similar substance that produced a similar hallucination?(In fact, Lord Lytton had already made such a suggestion in his occult novel A Strange Story. )Of course much of Castaneda’s work has been discredited after astute critics noticed that his books were full of factual contradictions, especially regarding dates; yet this particular suggestion remains plausible."[Wilson, Colin, and Damon Wilson *Strange : true stories of the mysterious and bizarre*. Skyhorse Publishing, 2014.]