Created: 2025-12-18 22:08:43
Origin: searched
Selected: Indeed, one comes to understand the most profound implications of art only by contemplating its immaterial, Utopian content: "If thought is in any way to gain a relation to art it must be on the basis that something in reality, something back of the veil spun by the interplay of institutions and false needs, objectively demands art, and that it demands an art that speaks for what the veil hides. "14 The hidden side of reality is art's promesse du bonheur, the suggestion of a world without social antagonism, material want, or prescribed needs.[Kolbas, E. Dean *Critical Theory and the Literary Canon*. 2001.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Indeed, one comes to understand the most profound implications of art only by contemplating its immaterial, Utopian content: "If thought is in any way to gain a relation to art it must be on the basis that something in reality, something back of the veil spun by the interplay of institutions and false needs, objectively demands art, and that it demands an art that speaks for what the veil hides. "14 The hidden side of reality is art's promesse du bonheur, the suggestion of a world without social antagonism, material want, or prescribed needs."[Kolbas, E. Dean *Critical Theory and the Literary Canon*. 2001.]

02. "Applied to non-musical art, it seems to speak to a correspondence between 102 Art as Music, Music as Poetry, Poetry as Art the ‘rhythme entre les rapports’ [‘rhythm between relationships’] (as Mallarmé put it, in the letter quoted above) of the poem or painting, and an unalterable absolute that founds our belief in the oneness of art. At all levels, indeed, the concept of harmony implies a correspondence between elements whose adequacy is determined by fundamental principles that go beyond the individual work of art."[Dayan, Peter *Art as Music, Music as Poetry, Poetry as Art, from Whistler to Stravinsky and Beyond*. Ashgate, 2011.]

03. "Rather, the entire i m itated work m ight be termed a plag iarism, an entirely different mode of loan-object. I n sum, art may have recou rse to quotation for individual or historicocu ltural reasons which a re exceptional. It is employed by the scholar-a rtist or the artist 359 Concl usions with a thesis, for whom art is one a mong other media for the expression of phi losophica l messages. Quotations accumu late in art when the bou nda ries between it and other forms of social consciousness become vag ue."[Morawski, Stefan *Inquiries into the Fundamental of Aesthetics*. MIT Press, 1974.]

04. "Friedrich Schiller to Johann Wolfgang Goethe, 23 August 1794, in Johann Wolfgang Goethe, Gedenkausgabe der Werke, Briefe und Gespräche, ed. Ernst Beutler, vol. 20, Briefwechsel mit Friedrich Schiller (Zürich: Artenus-Verlag, 1950), 15; my translation. 2. On the power of art to be insightful or truthful, see Carl R. Hausman’s essay “Insight in the Arts,” The Journal of Aesthetics and Art Criticism 45 (1986): 163–73. It argues that works of art provide “insights” into the greater world beyond art, yet while maintaining special artistic values in themselves that are not reducible to ulterior purposes."[Guardiano, Nicholas *Aesthetic Transcendentalism in Emerson, Peirce, and Nineteenth-Century American Landscape Painting*. Lexington Books, 2016.]

05. "It therefore prevents either the sound or the colour being received as art. The link between the art of sound and the art of sight must remain absolutely immune to 14 As we shall see in Chapter 6, Stravinsky likewise saw Scriabin as a composer whose aesthetics, like Wagner’s, were fundamentally wrong-headed. Satie’s Art 43 mechanism, to measurement, to technique. The one can transpose the other, but cannot imitate, represent, translate or express it. Once one has learnt to respect these conditions of artistic transposition, once one has allowed them to destroy the synaesthetic, scientific, critical or academic notion of truth in art, one can, perhaps, find, in art, a different kind of truth."[Dayan, Peter *Art as Music, Music as Poetry, Poetry as Art, from Whistler to Stravinsky and Beyond*. Ashgate, 2011.]

06. "It follows, then, that from Heidegger's point of view the idea that 'art' is synonymous with 'fine art' is a product of decadence. That he should seek to displace this notion is, therefore, part and parcel of his enterprise of restoring us to an older and healthier conception of the nature and significance of art. A related point is that, as Heidegger puts it in a 1960 marginal comment, 'the distinctiveness of art' in the modern sense is 'open to question (frage-würdig)' {GA 5, p. 60). Artists, that is, are constantly challenging the accepted boundaries of art, constantly suggesting that we should accept as art works which lie outside of the domain and power of the 'art industry', outside 'the realm of tradition and conser13 'Nihilism, Art, Technology, and Polities', p. 298."[Young, Julian *Heidegger's Philosophy of Art*. Cambridge University Press, 2001.]

07. "Like economy, law, science, politics, etc. , art also differentiated itself as an autonomous communication system in the 16th to 19th centuries (cf. Luhmann 1995/2000: 133–184, 211–243), and only since then we have also been able to use the word as a singulare tantum. This newly emerging conception of art could of course build on and integrate former art-like practices and make it appear “as if art had existed at all times” (Luhmann 1995/ 2000: 218), but this deceptive impression is only due to the retrospective self-description of the art system."[Wolf, Werner, Walter Bernhart, and Andreas Mahler *Immersion and Distance: Aesthetic Illusion in Literature and Other Media*. Rodopi, 2013.]

08. "Art decl i nes to 328 Functions of Art i n a Context of Al ienation the standing of a department of human i nterest. The way it ha ppens is con ju nctura l : economica lly, works of art take on commod ity tra its; pol itical ly, there is a censorship; a nd ideological ly, art becomes more subjective and mystica l . The su m of th is is a lienation, the loss of a ny cha nce for art to achieve a genera l and ha rmonizi ng effect. It sta nds, then, a tongue-tied testimony to the condition of society. The best of this art wi ll probably elevate just one fu nction, accent it, and make it something a bsol ute; hence, the idea l of the bea utiful, or of the a rtist's awareness of his responsibility."[Morawski, Stefan *Inquiries into the Fundamental of Aesthetics*. MIT Press, 1974.]

09. "But in doing so, in pointing out what changes in art, he risks damaging our sense of the stability of art, of its oneness. The uniqueness of modern art might threaten the timeless uniqueness of art in general. The solution is to envisage art in another medium as beyond that threat, as immune to the vulgarity that currently threatens the Phœnix."[Dayan, Peter *Art as Music, Music as Poetry, Poetry as Art, from Whistler to Stravinsky and Beyond*. Ashgate, 2011.]

10. "Art was hence not merely ‘in the service of cultural transformation’ but was ‘cultural transformation’ (ibid. : 54), paganism an insistence on art against knowledge, on art as discovery rather than truth. Within it one could then ‘invent by instituting new rules’, one could seek ‘the move that will displace the rules of the game, the ‘impossible’ or unforeseeable move’ (ibid. : 55). And hence we can then come to find the distinction, as explicated so cogently once more by the late Bill Readings, between Lyotard’s conception of modernist and post-modernist forms of art, between the ‘innovative function of art’ espoused by modernism, and the true ‘paralogism’ of the postmodern: Innovation seeks to make a new move within the rules of the language game “art”, so as to revivify the truth of art."[Schacter, Rafael *Ornament and Order: Graffiti, Street Art and the Parergon*. Ashgate, 2014.]

11. "As Braque saw, one might suggest, on the occasions that their paths come close to convergence, art 'echoes' in Heidegger's thinking. An echo of art is not, however, a philosophy of art. Though Heidegger himself was often disposed to a 'post-philosophical' view of his thinking, this seems to me the wrong response to the critical question."[Young, Julian *Heidegger's Philosophy of Art*. Cambridge University Press, 2001.]

12. "None of these reservations, however, are present in his discussion of East Asian art. There is a sense here, I think, that what is encountered is art of a still higher order than is encountered in Rilke. The primary records of Heidegger's encounter with Eastern art are the authorized protocol of the 1958 discussion between Heidegger and the Japanese philosopher and Zen-master Hoseki Hisamatsu, 'Thought and Art' (DK), and A Dialogue on Language', subtitled 'Between a Japanese and an Inquirer' (OWL pp."[Young, Julian *Heidegger's Philosophy of Art*. Cambridge University Press, 2001.]

13. "They set out to make him popular by revealing that his is an art of physical perception. In each case, Blake is identiﬁed in terms of the conﬂict between the need to invent a form of art that is original and the desire to ﬁnd a type of expression that makes this art intelligible. Gilchrist invites his readers to appreciate the visual character of an art ‘never imitative, but the expression of ideas pure and simple’; and Swinburne refers to Blake’s desire to liberate art from ‘barren symbols’ and ‘mendacious idols’ (Gilchrist 1907, 140; Swinburne, 3)."[Whittaker, Jason, and Steve Clark *Blake, Modernity and Popular Culture*. 2007.]

14. "Habits and embodied dispositions are just examples. There are many others that span the field of even the most abstract of modern art. Fried (as we have seen) decries the theatricality of minimalist art (Judd, Morris, Andre), promoting art that attends to the distinctly aesthetic experiences it generates in the course of its own activity as art. But based on our reading, this distinction just marks different levels at which art might “save the earth. ” If earth art is theatrical in that it dramatizes the relation between earth and sky, it is because it effectively engages the observer."[Drenthen, Martin *Environmental Aesthetics: Crossing Divides and Breaking Ground*. Fordham University Press, 2013.]

15. "Among numerous articulations on the commonsense of art, we often hear that there cannot be a formulaic vantage point to judge art, that art is essentially about a mode of experiential expression or an expression of blissful imagination and therefore is embedded in a field of subjectivism. Within this popular commonsense, a sociologist might deem these relationships and conditions too messy to decipher in a way that would make sociological sense."[Perera, Sasanka, and Dev Nath Pathak *Intersections of Contemporary Art, Anthropology and Art History in South Asia: Decoding Visual Worlds*. Springer International Publishing;Palgrave Macmillan, 2019.]