Created: 2025-12-02 19:50:56
Origin: searched
Selected: This example with the clock is on the one hand a good example that illustrates the texturation approach as presented in this book. One the other hand, it is also a good example of how this complementary approach that integrates interaction design thinking with a perspective rooted in architecture as presented in this book can be of practical help for analyzing and understanding technology integration in context. This relate to a set of important messages in this book.[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

--- Context List ---
01. "This example with the clock is on the one hand a good example that illustrates the texturation approach as presented in this book. One the other hand, it is also a good example of how this complementary approach that integrates interaction design thinking with a perspective rooted in architecture as presented in this book can be of practical help for analyzing and understanding technology integration in context. This relate to a set of important messages in this book."[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

02. "It is now time to summarize the lessons learned from the first chapter of the book. From my perspective the main purpose with this chapter was to establish a conceptual platform for one of the core concepts for this book, i. e. “interaction”. Since interaction is one critical concept, not only for this book, but for this emergent field of interactive architecture and the texturing of information technologies into our built environments it has been somewhat crucial to pay some extra attention to this concept."[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

03. "One aspect of poetic interpretation concerns an allegorical, or metaphorical understanding of the text. Since the semantic literature on metaphorical interpretation is abundant, I at first restrain the topic of poetic interpretation to the metaphorical interpretation of poetic text, and consider to what extent theories on metaphor help explain it. I consider first semantic perspectives, and then cognitive perspectives on metaphor. Throughout the discussion of different theories, I focus on possible implications for the metaphorical interpretation of poetic text."[Brouwer, Elisabeth Cathérine *Imagining Metaphors: Cognitive Representation in Interpretation and Understanding*. Institute for Logic, Language and Computation Universiteit van Amsterdam, 2003.]

04. "As is well known, structural principles were ﬁrst applied with the greatest success to phonology, and then to lexical semantics and to syntactic rules. The structural analysis of the narrative may be regarded as one attempt to extend or transpose this model of linguistic entities beyond the 7 Cf. Roland Barthes, ‘Introduction à l’analyse structurale du récit’, Communications, 8 (1966), pp. 1–27 [English translation: ‘Introduction to the structural analysis of narratives’, in Image-Music-Text, edited and translated by Stephen Heath (London: Fontana/Collins, 1977), pp."[Ricoeur, Paul, and John B. Thompson *Hermeneutics and the Human Sciences: Essays on Language, Action and Interpretation*. Reissue. Cambridge University Press, 2016.]

05. "The poetic nature of a text is then not so much a property of the text drawing attention to itself, but rather, depends on contextual presentation, and on the social convention that some formal aspects of a text should draw the interpreter's attention to the text in itself. Thus, to recognize a text as being part of a poetic context allows a reader to approach the text as one of which the value has been established previously, and thus presents a 'normal' context for poetic interpretation. 4 The realm of imagination The feature of objective disinterestedness in aesthetic judgement, we saw, is echoed in Jakobson's notion of the poetic function, which draws the reader's attention to the purely formal qualities of the poetic message, and leads him to disregard the referential or objective function of the text."[Brouwer, Elisabeth Cathérine *Imagining Metaphors: Cognitive Representation in Interpretation and Understanding*. Institute for Logic, Language and Computation Universiteit van Amsterdam, 2003.]

06. "In this case, the context of interpretation is not a conceptual network pertaining to general knowledge about roses, or to specific perceptual experience of these, but rather, is derived from textual information about the phrase. Such information could comprise knowledge about its author, her other work, or the contextual presentation (a child's book), as well as still further knowledge about poetry and general conventions therein."[Brouwer, Elisabeth Cathérine *Imagining Metaphors: Cognitive Representation in Interpretation and Understanding*. Institute for Logic, Language and Computation Universiteit van Amsterdam, 2003.]

07. "Uncertainty leads to greater variability in user input, even for the same user, thus increasing the technical challenges. To provide a satisfying user experience, a multimodal interface has to conform to users’ mental models and meet their expectations about the interaction and the domain. Ideally, an IV system should be easy to use and not require sophisticated user skills, as many are not computer experts."[Zudilova-Seinstra, Elena, Tony Adriaansen, Robert van Liere (auth.), Robert Liere, Tony Adriaansen, and Elena Zudilova-Seinstra (eds.) *Trends in Interactive Visualization: State-of-the-Art Survey*. Springer-Verlag London, 2009.]

08. "Sharp et al. [29] suggest that recognising and understanding the trade-off between usability and user experience goals is important, particularly as this awareness enables designers to understand the consequences of pursuing different combinations of them in relation to fulfilling different user’s needs. Arguably, in order for any interactive visualisation UI to gain user acceptance it must meet both usability and user experience criteria for an enjoyable user experience. The usability and user experience criteria particularly relevant to interaction design in the literature [18, 20, 31, 35] were reviewed by the author."[Zudilova-Seinstra, Elena, Tony Adriaansen, Robert van Liere (auth.), Robert Liere, Tony Adriaansen, and Elena Zudilova-Seinstra (eds.) *Trends in Interactive Visualization: State-of-the-Art Survey*. Springer-Verlag London, 2009.]

09. "As described above, the first part of the book has the title “Motivation: Think Outside the Box”. This first part of the book consists of the first three chapters in the book. As an ingres to this first part of the book called “A pre-interaction reflection – the breakdown of the box” I first start out with a general reflection around xxviii “the box” as a traditional framing of computers and how this box is now breaking down everywhere. In chapter 1 called “Interaction” I then take “the breakdown of the box” as a point of departure for moving our thinking away from the boxes, and more in the direction of why interaction matters and why we should focus on interaction as a core element in any digital design project."[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

10. "8 Applying a User-Centered Approach to Interactive Visualisation Design 195 References 1. K. Allendörfer, S. Aluker, G. Panjwani, J. Proctor, D. Sturtz, M. Vukovic, and C. Chen. Adapting the cognitive walkthrough method to assess the usability of a knowledge domain visualisation. In IEEE Symposium on Information Visualisation (InfoVis’05), 2005. IEEE Computer Society Press. 2. R. Amar, and J. Stasko. A knowledge task-based framework for design and evaluation of information visualisations. In M. Ward and T. Munzer, editors, IEEE Symposium on Information Visualisation (InfoVis’04), volume 04, 143–149, Austin, TX, USA, 2004."[Zudilova-Seinstra, Elena, Tony Adriaansen, Robert van Liere (auth.), Robert Liere, Tony Adriaansen, and Elena Zudilova-Seinstra (eds.) *Trends in Interactive Visualization: State-of-the-Art Survey*. Springer-Verlag London, 2009.]

11. "Although there is a continuous line of argument, I have tried to construct the book so that (to some extent) the chapters can be read independently of each other. (Note added in 2015: the chapter organisation has been significantly altered since the first edition. What follows applies only to the first edition. )So Chapter 1 introduces the puzzle of representation and discusses pictorial, linguistic and mental representation."[Crane, Tim *The Mechanical Mind: A Philosophical Introduction to Minds, Machines and Mental Representation*. 3rd ed. Routledge, 2016.]

12. "Doug Sery served as my editor at MIT Press for the UK edition of this book (as well as for Living with Complexity). For this book, TJ did all the work and Doug provided encouragement. 304 Acknowledgments 9780465050659-text. indd 304 8/19/13 5:22 PM GEN ER AL R EADI NGS A N D NOT ES In the notes below, I first provide general readings. Then, chapter by chapter, I give the specific sources used or cited in the book. In this world of rapid access to information, you can find information about the topics discussed here by yourself."[Norman, Don *The Design of Everyday Things - Revised and Expanded Edition*. Basic Books, 2013.]

13. "Combining modules into zones for images (the gray areas) ensures variety as well as a unified relationship with text. A SIX-COLUMN MODULAR GRID helps integrate text and images of various sizes to provide contrast and variation but without sacrificing the harmonic proportional unity of the panels. Clemens Théobert Schedler Austria Visual Logic Structuring the Page Intuitive Arrangement Integrating Type and Image Layout Systems TWO OPPOSING GRIDS are combined in this book to create conflict between text and image areas."[Samara, Timothy *Design Elements: A Graphic Style Manual*. Rockport Publishers, 2007.]

14. "Heidegger collated these notes with the help of a number of assistants and approved the final typescript in spring of 1961. Since access to the original notes is restricted, and because the notes themselves are fascinating documents, I have prepared a description of one complete page of the notes and a comparison of it to the relevant pages of the Neske edition as an Appendix to the present volume. (See also a photographic facsimile of that page following p. 223. )There is one serious error on this page as transcribed in the Neske edition, volume one, page 51, line 22."[Heidegger, Martin, and David Farrrell Krell *Nietzsche, Vol. 1: The Will to Power as Art, Vol. 2: The Eternal Recurrance of the Same*. HarperOne, 1991.]

15. "This philosophy also pervades the book that our research team put together: Notes to Chapter 5 315 9780465050659-text. indd 315 8/19/13 5:22 PM 200 200 208 210 212 213 214 316 User Centered System Design (Norman & Draper, 1986); two chapters are especially relevant to the discussions here: my “Cognitive Engineering” and the one I wrote with Clayton Lewis, “Designing for Error. ” Multitasking: There are many studies of the dangers and inefficiencies of multitasking. A partial review is given by Spink, Cole, & Waller (2008)."[Norman, Don *The Design of Everyday Things - Revised and Expanded Edition*. Basic Books, 2013.]