Created: 2025-12-19 16:05:56
Origin: suggested
Selected: Objects try to make sense of each other through the qualities and logics they possess. When one object caricatures another, the ﬁrst grasps the second in abstract, enough for the one to make some sense of the other given its own internal properties. A caricature is a rendering that captures some aspects of something else at the cost of other aspects. 16 The mechanism that facilitates this sort of alien phenomenology is not Nagel’s objective instrument—one that clariﬁes foreign perception by removing distortion—but instead a mechanism that welcomes such distortion.[Bogost, Ian *Alien Phenomenology, or What It's Like to Be a Thing*. University of Minnesota Press, 2012.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Not all forms of representation submit to this form of integration. But if models are not like axiomatic systems, what are they like?Consider, as an alternative, two other paradigmatic forms of representation: pictures and maps. A picture is always a picture from a particular perspective, taken through a particular lens, in particular lighting conditions, and so on. We can assemble many photos and drawings of the same object from different angles, at different resolutions, in different lighting, on different scales, and on different types of film."[Horst, Steven *Laws, Mind, and Free Will*. The MIT Press, 2011.]

02. "CONCLUSION Abstraction, re-presentation, reflection, and conscious conceptualization interact on various levels of mental operating. In the course of these processes, what was 194 ABSTRACTION, RE-PRESENTATION, AND REFLECTION produced by one cycle of operations, can be taken as ‘given content’ by the next one, which may then coordinate it to create a new ‘form’, a new structure; and any such structure can be consciously conceptualized and associated with a symbol. The structure that then functions as the symbol’s meaning for the particular cognizing subject, may have gone through several cycles of abstraction and reorganization."[von Glasersfeld, Ernst *Key Works in Radical Constructivism*. Sense Publishers, 2009.]

03. "260-264). These methods come from a kind of predicative knowledge of course "exogenous" to the mere diagrammatic representation: generalization is not a possible product of the pure diagrammatic understanding. For instance, one suggestion is to break the problem into cases, to individuate a "representative" instance for each case, and to demonstrate that this conclusion holds for each of these instances. 23 Another one is to exploit the simulative aspects of constructions by "running experiments" that show how some parts of a diagram co-vary with changes in others: the observation of the interaction of the diagrams parts as one property is varied allows us to grasp and understand the "universal" value of some geometric relations and results (for example congruency theorem, asymptotic behaviors, periodic relations, and some symmetric relations)."[(auth.), Lorenzo Magnani *Philosophy and Geometry: Theoretical and Historical Issues*. Springer Netherlands, 2001.]

04. "2 and 4, for a detailed jtLxtaposition and analytic comparison of depictive ('diagrammatic') and textual ('sentential') modes of thought from a cognitive science perspective. NOTES TO CHAPTER FOUR 143 4 Two remarks. One, the anecdote of the clocks: a man heard the clock strike two times one day as he was falling asleep, and he coLmted: "One, one?'Then, realizing how 1idiculous that was, observed, "The clock has gone crazy: it struck one o'clock twice!"(quoted in Ifrah 1985, 24) Two, synthetic precedence: Kuratowski's definition, crucial in the formal theory of sets, of the ordered pair (a,b) constructed out of the Lmordered set {a,b} of two objects, and its proptiety discussed by mathematical logicians."[Rotman, Brian *Becoming beside ourselves: the alphabet, ghosts, and distributed human being*. Duke University Press, 2008.]

05. "Presumably the study of "real" organisms is just one of these; whether the other diagrams are equally real (i. e. , whether we can realize biological organization with novel physicochemical structures), or whether other such diagrams are excluded on some kind of physical grounds, is an open question. This formalism applies equally well to other kinds of organization, even nondynamical ones like linguistics. Here we can assume that there is only one set Ro(A) of realizations of the set A, comprising the linguistic "atoms" (morphemes or phonemes), and only one rule of juxtaposition leading to the set Roo#(A) of linear sequences of linguistic atoms."[(auth.), George J. Klir *Facets of Systems Science*. 2nd ed. Springer US, 2001.]

06. "Objects try to make sense of each other through the qualities and logics they possess. When one object caricatures another, the ﬁrst grasps the second in abstract, enough for the one to make some sense of the other given its own internal properties. A caricature is a rendering that captures some aspects of something else at the cost of other aspects. 16 The mechanism that facilitates this sort of alien phenomenology is not Nagel’s objective instrument—one that clariﬁes foreign perception by removing distortion—but instead a mechanism that welcomes such distortion."[Bogost, Ian *Alien Phenomenology, or What It's Like to Be a Thing*. University of Minnesota Press, 2012.]

07. "The old configuration is deconstructed and refigured within a new one, rather than uncritically abandoned in the process. In this sense, one can speak of a rigorous or critical suspension of the preceding configuration or system in juxtaposition to an uncritical negation or unproblematized reversal. Derrida pursues precisely this type of project and this set of strategies, strategically "conserving] the old name," the subordinate name, "writing" for his new concept (Margins, 329; Marges, 392)."[Plotnitsky, Arkady *In the Shadow of Hegel: Complementarity, History, and the Unconscious*. University Press of Florida, 1993.]

08. "However, psychological factors play a minor role in the transition from one kind of conceptual preforming to another. The main reason why it is impossible to apply different conceptual systems in one cognitive situation is epistemic and to some extent logical, not psychological: if we accepted more than one conceptual system — and in effect true propositions expressed in different systems — in one cognitive situation, we would be unable to reveal the investigated field of world as it is."[Czarnocka, Małgorzata *A Path to a Conception of Symbolic Truth*. Peter Lang Gmbh, Internationaler Verlag Der Wissenschaften, 2017.]

09. "Second, the very division of Logique de la sensation into two volumes— one just of Deleuze's commentary, one just of Bacon's paintings—sets up the tension of image and concept and yet suggests ways to overcome the developing of that tension into an irreconcilable split. How can one, on the one hand, argue that all aesthetic practices participate in a common activity of force and sensation and, on the other hand, still respect the material and formal specificity of each art?This is a question that has vexed theorists."[(ed.), Gary Genosko *Deleuze and Guattari: Critical Assessments of Leading Philosophers. Volume I: Deleuze*. Routledge, 2001.]

10. "Moreover, each interaction has to be analyzed separately: different discourses become attracted to different aspects of chaos. • Pragmatic theories of metaphors highlight the importance of a new term having to be processed in the importing discourse in order to make sense. In any discourse outside of physics, one may expect the integration of chaos into the existing corpus of knowledge to differ. MET APHORS IN THE SOCIAL SCIENCES 217 • Constructivist theories focus on the effect that once a tenn has been successfully integrated into one discourse, it stimulates further applications."[(ed.), Fernand Hallyn *Metaphor and Analogy in the Sciences*. Springer, 2000.]

11. "the same course of actually given sense- and imagecontents serves as a basis for the same ‘conception’ or ‘interpretation’, in which the appearance of the object with the properties presented by those contents is constituted for us. But the same appearance sustains different acts in the two cases. (LU ii/2 131; LI i 339)† That explains why the same intuitive given may be ‘on one occasion directly meant as that thing there, on another occasion as sustaining a universal’ (LU ii/2 131; LI i 357). ‘One and the same sensuous intuition can on one occasion serve as a basis for all these modes of conceiving’ (LU ii/2 131; LI i 357)."[Ricoeur, Paul, and John B. Thompson *Hermeneutics and the Human Sciences: Essays on Language, Action and Interpretation*. Reissue. Cambridge University Press, 2016.]

12. "This brief but important digression allows us to get a better grip on the parallel between form and structure. Both compose with another element—matter and content, respectively—to yield a certain kind of object. More precisely, the mathematical case (as do the linguistic and musical) shows the structurecontent relation just to be an instance of the more general form-matter relation. The matter of a quadratic equation is not literal matter as in the case of gold, but neither is this way of speaking in the mathematical case mere metaphor."[(ed.), Daniel D. Novotný, and Lukás Novák (ed.) *Neo-Aristotelian Perspectives in Metaphysics*. Routledge, 2014.]

13. "In Badiou’s terms, it is the sense of a situation rather than the counting-for-one that establishes it. In Whitehead’s terms, it is a prehensive capability. In Husserl’s terms, it is noesis divorced of consciousness, cogitation, intention, and other accidents of human reasoning. In Lingis’s terms, it is the inner formula by which a thing invites its exploration. Since objects are all fundamentally different from one another, each one has its own approach, its own logic of sense making, and through Alien Phenomenology [ 29 ] this relation they trace the real reality of another, just as the radiation around an event horizon helps an astronomer deduce the nature of a black hole. 67 “Unit operation” names the logics by which objects perceive and engage their worlds."[Bogost, Ian *Alien Phenomenology, or What It's Like to Be a Thing*. University of Minnesota Press, 2012.]

14. "The problem of the theory-ladenness of scientific observation is not whether one uses a semantic network in making an observationfor that one always doesnor whether the semantic network one uses is a scientific one, but whether in the making of a scientific observation, the mediation of instruments is compatible with a direct act of perception. To this question I have already answered, Yes!On the one hand, the phenomenology and semantics of scientific observation give support to this view, and on the other hand, the interpretative character of perception explains how this is possible, and provides criteriaamong them, hermeneutical criteriafor the testing of disputed claims."[Neville, Robert C. *New Essays in Metaphysics*. SUNY Press, 1986.]

15. "A topological map is better than a topographic map for getting from one subway stop to another, but worse for an overland trek on foot. One cannot simply lay transparencies of various maps of, say, Boston (figure 6. 2) on top of one another and have “the” map of the city. Rather, one has to know how to move from one map to another, and how to coordinate the Laws and Idealization 71 knowledge afforded by each map with the knowledge afforded by the others. Scientific models are not exactly like either pictures or maps."[Horst, Steven *Laws, Mind, and Free Will*. The MIT Press, 2011.]