Created: 2025-11-02 00:07:12
Origin: searched
Selected: Potential users include researchers, students and citizens. They can use GPS-enabled cameras, smartphones, or mobile devices to take photos to document their observations of landscape conditions and events. “CoCoRaHS” represents the Community Collaborative Rain, Hail and Snow Network that was set up and launched by three high school students with local funding. CoCoRaHS is a non-profit, community-based network of volunteers who collaboratively measure and map precipitation (rain, hail and snow) (Cifelli et al.[Seeing Cities Through Big Data: Research, Methods and Applications in Urban Informatics, Piyushimita (Vonu) Thakuriah, Nebiyou Tilahun, Moira Zellner (eds.), 2017]

--- Context List ---
01. "Potential users include researchers, students and citizens. They can use GPS-enabled cameras, smartphones, or mobile devices to take photos to document their observations of landscape conditions and events. “CoCoRaHS” represents the Community Collaborative Rain, Hail and Snow Network that was set up and launched by three high school students with local funding. CoCoRaHS is a non-profit, community-based network of volunteers who collaboratively measure and map precipitation (rain, hail and snow) (Cifelli et al."[Seeing Cities Through Big Data: Research, Methods and Applications in Urban Informatics, Piyushimita (Vonu) Thakuriah, Nebiyou Tilahun, Moira Zellner (eds.), 2017]

02. "The existence of a smooth function for “sudden rain” is not good enough for the problem if our sampling scale is in minutes or seconds. Smoothness is dependent on sampling in the real world and its applications. In many cases, absolute smoothness based on the mathematical definition may not work correctly. We propose possible definitions for natural smoothness and their relationship with the original mathematical definition of smooth functions."[Digital Functions and Data Reconstruction: Digital-Discrete Methods, Li M. Chen (auth.), 2013]

03. "However, the assessment of transportation infrastructure over such a large area could have been accelerated through the use of high resolution imagery and geospatial analysis (Uddin 2011; Schnebele et al. 2015). Despite the wide availability of large remote sensing datasets from numerous sensors, specific data might not be collected in the time and space most urgently required."[Seeing Cities Through Big Data: Research, Methods and Applications in Urban Informatics, Piyushimita (Vonu) Thakuriah, Nebiyou Tilahun, Moira Zellner (eds.), 2017]

04. "Models are constructed to give us representations of reality we can manipulate, allowing us both to demonstrate how real 1:1 scale environmental processes function, and how sensitive output is to changes in input and system parameters. However, there is often ‘too much’ reality to measure, and the same Table 14. 1 A classification of environmental modelling domains and attempts to integrate with GIS (modified after Kemp (1993) and Sklar and Constanza (1991)) DisciModel Typical Data Typical GIS- Crosspline objective modelling model related section of variables require- problems references 1 encountered ments HydrologicalPredict flow Momentum, 2. 5D Requires Bian et al. , models of water and acceleration,plus quality digital 1996; constitutents depth, time elevation Gorokhovich over land friction model Input and Janus, and through data 1996; upper layer (precipitation, Krysanova et evaporation) al. , 1996; and stream MacMillan et gauges usuallyal. , 1993; have limited Maidment, coverage 1996a, b; Moore, 1996; MuellerWohlfeil et al. , 1996; Ramanarayanan et al. , 1996; Streit and Wiesmann, 1996 Land surface Predict flow Momentum, 2. 5 or Little Charnock et al."[GeoComputation, Stan Openshaw, ]

05. "AMOS began to collect images from these 27,000 webcams mapped in Fig. 1 to understand 474 J. A. Hipp et al. Fig. 1 Map of cameras captured by the Archive of Many Outdoor Scenes (AMOS) the local effects of climate variations on plants (Jacobs et al. 2007). Other dataset uses include large collections of up-close, on the ground measurements to suggest corrections to standard satellite data products such as NASA’s Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) estimates of tree growing seasons (Ilushin et al."[Seeing Cities Through Big Data: Research, Methods and Applications in Urban Informatics, Piyushimita (Vonu) Thakuriah, Nebiyou Tilahun, Moira Zellner (eds.), 2017]

06. "While staying seated in the chair and with her gaze remaining ﬁ xed on the screen she travels in a limited way through time as well as space, opening up spaces and closing them down at will, or virtually occupying multiple spaces at the same time. Freely available to download and use from the Internet, software programs like Google Earth and Flash Earth bring huge archives of aerial photographs and satellite images within reach of archaeologists everywhere—providing interfaces for searching through them at speed as if ranging across the surface of the planet, or ﬂ icking through them like a virtual deck of cards."[Visualization in the Age of Computerization, Annamaria Carusi, Aud Sissel Hoel, Timothy Webmoor, Steve Woolgar, 2014]

07. "Figure 8 shows two examples, at diﬀerent time scales, of events associated to a single prototype. The plot on the left shows a heavy passing vehicle (in black), while the plot on the right shows all the subsequences considered part of a traﬃc jam event. 386 U. Vespier et al. split 1 split 2 Subsequences (with lead-in/out) Data massage Raw data . . . Map . . . Reduce (per tsi ) Map Reduce Map Reduce . . . split n split 1 split n lead-in ts split 2 Map Map . . . lead-out Cluster centroids Clustering Map current cluster centroids Reduce (per clusi ) Reduce update current cluster centroids iterate k (random) Fig."[Advances in Intelligent Data Analysis X: 10th International Symposium, IDA 2011, Porto, Portugal, October 29-31, 2011. Proceedings, Michael R. Berthold (auth.), João Gama, Elizabeth Bradley, Jaakko Hollmén (eds.), 2011]

08. "Based on quantum physics, there is no perfectly smooth surface. That means such a smooth surface does not exist in the real world on the quantum-scale. So the “natural” smoothness is relative and not absolute. 11. 3 Computational Meanings of Smoothness and Smooth Extensions 173 On the other hand, a mathematical smooth function does not always mean continuity in the real world. For instance, when a sunny day turns to rain, the rain does not usually come down consistently at 1 cm a minute. The rain usually has a few drops and then becomes heavier."[Digital Functions and Data Reconstruction: Digital-Discrete Methods, Li M. Chen (auth.), 2013]

09. "Thus, the catchment areas covered less area. These airport catchments were less than 13,000 km2 based on a 2-h drive-time, and less than 30,000 km2 based on a 3-h drive-time (Table 2). In contrast, Fig. 1 shows that YYZ, YOW, YXU, YQG, and YHM are surrounded by census subdivisions with relatively high population density. The road network is also denser here so the catchment areas formed a fuller polygon."[Geospatial Technologies for Local and Regional Development: Proceedings of the 22nd AGILE Conference on Geographic Information Science, Phaedon Kyriakidis, Diofantos Hadjimitsis, Dimitrios Skarlatos, Ali Mansourian, 2020]

10. "3d). 454 G. Cervone et al. Fig. 3 Using contributed data geolocated in the downtown Boulder area (a), an interpolated damage surface is created (b) and when paired with a road network, classifies potentially compromised roads (c). Roads which were closed by the Boulder Emergency Operations Center (EOC) that were also classified using this approach (d) Using Social Media and Satellite Data for Damage Assessment in Urban Areas. . . 455 5 Conclusions Big data, such as those generated through social media platforms, provide unprecedented access to real-time, on-the-ground information during emergencies, supplementing traditional, standard data sources such as space- and aerial-based remote sensing."[Seeing Cities Through Big Data: Research, Methods and Applications in Urban Informatics, Piyushimita (Vonu) Thakuriah, Nebiyou Tilahun, Moira Zellner (eds.), 2017]