Created: 2025-11-16 17:02:47
Origin: searched
Selected: Further, it is also possible to insert into the text in practically endless ways not only  syllables but especially words; of these systems one of the most effective consists in taking  a book of poetry or prose, or composing a fake letter to <someone> who is intimate, into  which apt words and expressions are scattered in a suitable position. So distributed they  must be identified and collected by the friend far away, these words have to be evidenced  by means of some precise signs agreed upon by convention.   [INPUT: Williams et al. - 2010 - The Mathematical Works of Leon Battista Alberti.pdf]

--- Context List ---
01. "Further, it is also possible to insert into the text in practically endless ways not only  syllables but especially words; of these systems one of the most effective consists in taking  a book of poetry or prose, or composing a fake letter to <someone> who is intimate, into  which apt words and expressions are scattered in a suitable position. So distributed they  must be identified and collected by the friend far away, these words have to be evidenced  by means of some precise signs agreed upon by convention.   "[INPUT: Williams et al. - 2010 - The Mathematical Works of Leon Battista Alberti.pdf]

02. "38–60. See also, in the same collection of essays, ‘From the Big Typescript to the “Philosophical Grammar’’’, pp. 24–37. 39 ‘Confusions in these matters’: Philosophical Grammar, p. 375. 40 ‘Philosophical clarity’: ibid. , p. 381. 41 ‘Nothing seems to me less likely’: Culture and Value, p. 62. 15 FRANCIS 1 ‘Is there a substratum’: Wittgenstein’s Lectures Cambridge 1932–1935, p. 205. 2 ‘no philosophy can possibly’: Hardy, ‘Mathematical Proof’, Mind, Jan. 1929, pp. 1–25. 3 ‘The talk of mathematicians’: Lectures: 1932–5, p. 225."[Monk, Ray *Ludwig Wittgenstein: The Duty of Genius*. New Ed. Vintage, 1991.]

03. "Even so, despite this injunction, the ratio eleven to four  (undecim ad quattuor) is clearly an error for eleven to fourteen (undecim ad  quattuordecim), as a simple comparative drawing would have shown [Alberti 1988: 219  (VII, x)]; see pp. 211–212 in the present volume for more details. The second reason is that  Alberti placed a higher value on written descriptions than on images. He was not alone in  this; various other authors beginning in antiquity also favoured words over images (cf. , for  example, [Furlan 2006: 207] and [Alberti 2007: 21])."[INPUT: Williams et al. - 2010 - The Mathematical Works of Leon Battista Alberti.pdf]

04. "lo to be found, not happening to [chap. have been \vrltt_'u down and so preserved. Now it is easy to see that as ages go on, and the languages of a family each take their separate course of change, it and less possible to show their relationship by comparing whole sentences. Philologists have to depend on less perfect resemblances, but such are sufficient must become less when not only words from the dictionary correspond in the two languages, but also these are worked up into actual speech by corresponding forms of grammar."[Tylor, Edward B. *Anthropology: an introduction to the study of man and civilization*. D. Appleton and Company, 1896.]

05. "For reading and passing comments on earlier drafts of parts of this book, I am grateful to Dr G. P. Baker of St John’s College, Oxford, and Professor Sir Peter Strawson of Magdalen College, Oxford. Dr Baker and his colleague Dr P. M. S. Hacker were also kind enough to make available to me work that they are currently engaged upon."[Monk, Ray *Ludwig Wittgenstein: The Duty of Genius*. New Ed. Vintage, 1991.]

06. "Often it seems helpful to call the reader’s attention to crucial passages in some of Nietzsche’s other works. These are cited in each instance according to sections, to enable the reader to find them in any edition; but in the case of material included in a volume of Nietzsche translations that I published in 195413 I have also given the page numbers in parentheses. 4 About the title of the book: like many of Nietzsche’s titles, phrases, and coinages, it is brilliant, unforgettable, and usually misconstrued."[Nietzsche, Friedrich *Beyond Good & Evil*. Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group, 2010.]

07. " Universal Text, Generic Code, Pre-Specific Data Universal text, I will argue, manifests not only a kind of writing that  is more profound, and more abstractly decoupled from writing that  captures and represents voice and articulation, as Derrida suggests. Universal text also manifests as a generic body-to-think-in, along the  following lines : (1) like language, universal text is collectively engendered before it can be individually appropriated; but, also like language,  it dies, turns stiff and formulaic once it ceases to be inhabited; (2) a  generic body-to-think-in does of course have a form of organization,  but the referent of this form is not transcendent to it, rather it is engendered in an immanent manner."[INPUT: Hovestadt and Bühlmann - 2014 - Domesticating symbols metalithikum. II.pdf]

08. "In the text, the extracts have been given in English. Where this follows a previously published translation, I cite here only the published reference. Where it is my translation of an extract previously published (or quoted) only in German, I give the manuscript reference, together with a reference to the original publication. In cases where I have translated a previously unpublished extract, I give the manuscript reference, together with the original German text. I have followed this procedure also with some of the more important letters from Frege to Wittgenstein."[Monk, Ray *Ludwig Wittgenstein: The Duty of Genius*. New Ed. Vintage, 1991.]

09. "3. Many kanji were simpliﬁed or replaced by others easier to write. 4. Uniform rules were prescribed for how to write the kanji (sequence and number of strokes). The print and television press strives to follow these and other government recommendations concerning how Japanese is to be written. A knowledge of the set of characters treated in this book will therefore be suﬃcient for reading Japanese newspapers without time-consuming reference to a character dictionary. To be sure, this assumes mastery of a vocabulary of at least 10,000 Japanese words, most of which, including proper names, consist of two or three kanji."[Wolfgang, Hadamitzky, and Spahn Mark. *Japanese Kanji & Kana: A Complete Guide to the Japanese Writing System*. 2017.]

10. "This new view sees plants as information processing organisms with complex communication throughout the individual plant. Plants are as sophisticated in behavior as animals but their potential has been masked because it operates on time scales many orders of magnitude less than that operating in animals. ” I would quibble with their use of machine language, such as “systems” and “computing,” but I’d be also clear this is only a quibble. In my own mind I’ll just perform internal substitutions like thinking for computing and happily move on."[Jensen, Derrick *The Myth of Human Supremacy*. Seven Stories Press, 2016.]

11. "All rights reserved. Except for brief quotations in a review, this book, or any part thereof, may not be reproduced, stored in or introduced into a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise, without the prior written permission of the publisher. ISBN EAN ISBN EAN 1 85043 805 6 Hardback 978 1 85043 805 2 Hardback 1 85043 806 4 Paperback 978 1 85043 806 9 Paperback A full CIP record for this book is available from the British Library A full CIP record for this book is available from the Library of Congress Library of Congress catalog card: available Typeset in Adobe Garamond by Steve Tribe, Andover Printed and bound in Great Britain by MPG Books Ltd, Bodmin Contents Acknowledgements 1. vii Waking into Dream: Competence Cascades, Thick Texts and the Universalization of the Geek Aesthetic 1 2."[Kaveney, Roz *From Alien to The Matrix: Reading Science Fiction Film*. I. B. Tauris, 2005.]

12. "The roots themselves are often difficult to represent, since certain consonants carry diacritic marks that are not defined. The notes on names that follow inevitably give a slightly more positive impression than does the book itself. The other book is a dictionary of the Gnomish language, Goldogrin, and I shall refer to this as 'GL' (Goldogrin, or Gnomish, Lexicon). This is not arranged historically, by roots (though occasionally roots are given), but rather, in plan at least, as a conventional dictionary; and it contains a remarkable number of words."[Tolkien, J.R.R. *The Book of Lost Tales 1 (The History of Middle-Earth, Vol. 1)*. Del Ray/Balantine Books, 1992.]

13. "The printing, copying, redistribution, or retransmission of this Content without express written permission is prohibited. For Discussion and Writing This essay originally appeared on the New York Times op-ed page under the title “Stuffed Animals with an Agenda. ” What do you think Millet meant by that?As the headnote attests, Lydia Millet is primarily a writer of fiction. In fact, taxidermy plays an important part in one of her novels. Can you detect any elements of her writing in this essay that might also be used in a novel or short story?"[Cohen, Samuel *50 Essays: A Portable Anthology*. 5th ed. Bedford / St. Martin’s, 2016.]

14. "This is  the only method of monoalphabetic encryption which uses simple letters. In addition to  what was said above, it is possible to make more characters both usual and unusual, and to  use them individually as well as in combinations, whether they are two, three or more, to  represent the value of a letter. 11"[INPUT: Williams et al. - 2010 - The Mathematical Works of Leon Battista Alberti.pdf]

15. "© 2009 by Scott Russell Sanders All rights reserved No part of this book may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying and recording, or by any information storage and retrieval system, without permission in writing from the publisher. The Association of American University Presses’ Resolution on Permissions constitutes the only exception to this prohibition. The paper used in this publication meets the minimum requirements of American National Standard for Information Sciences—Permanence of Paper for Printed Library Materials, ANSI Z39. 48-1984."[Sanders, Professor Scott Russell *A Conservationist Manifesto*. 2009.]