Created: 2025-11-07 23:38:26
Origin: suggested
Selected: In other words, as an interactive artist I fi nd that words can often be a clumsy means of expression for me, and I’m sure many musicians, for example, would agree. I urge readers of this chapter to also explore my artworks themselves, in addition to reading what I have to say about them. I would like to gratefully acknowledge the assistance from Michael Toolan and Roy Harris with this paper. NOTES 1. I am indebted to Michael Toolan for this observation.[Toolan, Michael *Language Teaching: Integrational Linguistic Approaches (Routledge Advances in Communication and Linguistic Theory)*. 2008.]

--- Context List ---
01. "In other words, as an interactive artist I fi nd that words can often be a clumsy means of expression for me, and I’m sure many musicians, for example, would agree. I urge readers of this chapter to also explore my artworks themselves, in addition to reading what I have to say about them. I would like to gratefully acknowledge the assistance from Michael Toolan and Roy Harris with this paper. NOTES 1. I am indebted to Michael Toolan for this observation."[Toolan, Michael *Language Teaching: Integrational Linguistic Approaches (Routledge Advances in Communication and Linguistic Theory)*. 2008.]

02. "It reminds me of Hans Arp. He would make an ink drawing and then tear it to pieces. He then drops the pieces on a sheet of paper. And, wherever they happen to land he pastes them down. Thus, a finished drawing. Perhaps if I were not so very ignorant about science, I would know better than to say what I have, or else I would be able to better say what I stumble around to say."[Biederman, Charl *Bohm-Biederman Correspondence*. 1999.]

03. "There is no reason to analyze the ‘documents’ as representing some canonical spoken form. Presumably an impression of twenty sheep tokens might elicit the reading twenty sheep in whatever language Preliminaries 7 Figure 1. 3 A envelope with its contents and the corresponding markings of the contents on the outside Source: After Schmandt-Besserat (1996: 52, fig. 15); image # 2009 Lisa L. Sproat, used with permission. the users spoke, but other ways of conveying the same information linguistically would not be wrong."[Sproat, Richard *Language, Technology, and Society*. 2010.]

04. "One further point to bear in mind about ALPAC is that its comments were directed against machine translation of unrestricted text. Clearly, if one could Wnd an application domain where the text is so restricted that one could write rules that would cover most of the cases one is ever likely to see, then the problem becomes signiWcantly easier."[Sproat, Richard *Language, Technology, and Society*. 2010.]

05. "To my mind, the most unfortunate instance of this (as also noted in Chapter 3) is the use of the term ‘ideograph’ to refer to Chinese characters (the usage goes at least back to Becker’s original Unicode88 proposal). Thus one can Wnd many references to ‘CJK (Chinese-Japanese-Korean) ideographs’ (or ‘Han Ideographs’) in the Unicode literature. The ideographic myth surrounding Chinese characters has now, by act of committee, become part of the permanent lexicon of text technology. But complaints aside, electronic text technology has changed the equation for the mechanical input of text."[Sproat, Richard *Language, Technology, and Society*. 2010.]

06. "(&) I see a picture; it represents an old man walking up a steep  path leaning on a stick. —How? Might it not have looked just the same  if he had been sliding downhill in that position? Perhaps a Martian  would describe the picture so. I do not need to explain why we do not  describe it so. 140.  Then what sort of mistake did I make; was it what we should  like to express by saying: I should have thought the picture forced a  particular use on me? How could I think that? What did I think? Is  there such a thing as a picture, or something like a picture, that forces  a particular application on us; so that my mistake lay in confusing one  picture with another?—For we might also be inclined to express  ourselves like this: we are at most under a psychological, not a logical,  compulsion. And now it looks quite as if we knew of two kinds of  case. "[INPUT: Wittgenstein__Philosophical_Investigations.pdf]

07. "We cannot imagine it? Do we try?— Here is a possibility: I hear that someone is painting a picture  "Beethoven writing the ninth symphony". I could easily imagine the  kind of thing such a picture would shew us. But suppose someone  wanted to represent what Goethe would have looked like writing the  ninth symphony? Here I could imagine nothing that would not be  embarrassing and ridiculous. vu People who on waking tell us certain incidents (that they have been  in such-and-such places, etc. )- Then we teach them the expression  "I dreamt", which precedes the narrative. Afterwards I sometimes  ask them "did you dream anything last night?" and am answered  yes or no, sometimes with an account of a dream, sometimes not. That  is the language-game. (I have assumed here that I do not dream myself.  But then, nor do I ever have the feeling of an invisible presence;  other people do, and I can question them about their experiences. ) "[INPUT: Wittgenstein__Philosophical_Investigations.pdf]

08. "Being able to search through the text and have a program perform statistics on the distribution of various linguistic features is quite useful and can lead to insights that would not be feasible otherwise. The study of contested authorship, the frequency of occurrence of phonemes and words, and the acoustic analysis of the speech signal would all  D. H. Whalen be forbiddingly difficult without a tool like the computer. But the way that digitized language has been shared to date is much more like the longest tradition of linguistic field work, in which notes about the utterances reside with a single researcher and are available only to those who physically travel to where the notes are and receive permission to use them."[Van Sterkenburg, P. G. J., and Republique tcheque International congress of linguists 17 Prague *Linguistics Today: Facing A Greater Challenge*. 2004.]

09. "Call it a dream. It does not change anything. Given the two ideas 'fat' and 'lean', would you be rather inclined  to say that Wednesday was fat and Tuesday lean, or vice versa?  (I incline decisively towards the former. ) Now have "fat" and  "lean" some different meaning here from their usual one?—They  have a different use. —So ought I really to have used different  words? Certainly not that. —I want to use these words (with their  familiar meanings) here. —Now, I say nothing about the causes of this  phenomenon. They might be associations from my childhood. But that  is a hypothesis. Whatever the explanation,—the inclination is there. "[INPUT: Wittgenstein__Philosophical_Investigations.pdf]

10. "Yet he also changed, and in the chapters that follow I will return, time and again, to Ildefonso and examine what his transformation can tell us about the interaction between language and thought. But there is one more question we need to ask before we proceed on this journey. If we do indeed reach agreement with others by following linguistic categories made obligatory by our languages, why, how, and when do these languages change?"[A., Pavlenko *The Bilingual Mind: And What It Tells Us about Language And Thought*. draft. CUP, 2014.]

11. "CHAT Playful performance flourishes in text-based synchronous chat. Participants play with identity, often composing nicknames with clever use of spelling and typography (Bechar-Israeli 1995; Danet 1998; Turkle 1995). In an improvisational sequence on IRC (Internet Relay Chat; Figure 8. 3), participants simulated smoking marihuana, using the letters and symbols on the computer keyboard. Players nicknamed and mobilize some of the features discussed above, including descriptions of action (*passes joint to kang*; *puff* *hold*; *gurble gurble gurble*), typed simulation of laughter (hehehe), and smiley icons."[Maybin, Janet, and Joan Swann *The Routledge Companion to English Language Studies (Routledge Companions)*. 2009.]

12. "But research into coding MAN AND HIS RELATION TO THE TECHNICAL GIVEN 117 systems, useful for inscribing the results of calculating machines on a cathode ray oscilloscope screen, or for displaying signals o f electromagnetic9 detection on the same type of screen, appear capable o f conveying a very great simplification o f the Hertzian transmission o f schematic images; visual information would thus regain the place that it has lost because o f radio broadcasts with respect to spoken language and would be capable of giving rise to a new universal symbolism."[Simondon, Gilbert, and Cecile Malaspina *On the Mode of Existence of Technical Objects*. Paperback. Univocal Publishing, 2017.]

13. "These engineers are not merely conducting a routine software task; rather, we fi nd them talking of ‘overcoming the language barrier’ in India precisely by combining basic notions of script literacy with what they call a ‘Paninian grammar’. They write: This machine-translation “Anusaaraka system . . . makes text in one Indian language accessible in another Indian language”. At the present time, it can do a rough translation between languages as apparently diverse as Telegu and Hindi. The Aksara Bharati group point to the enormous social advantages of their script-based ‘anusaaraka’ in the not too distant future, and we could similarly draw attention to other important innovations made in this field by the government-sponsored ‘C-DAC’ organization."[Toolan, Michael *Language Teaching: Integrational Linguistic Approaches (Routledge Advances in Communication and Linguistic Theory)*. 2008.]

14. "In this year’s Writing Paper, adopting a tone of politeness and cooperation would have been most appropriate. Many scripts, however, sounded condescending. . . . The overuse and misuse of ‘should’ such as ‘Parents should seek help from teachers’ ."[Toolan, Michael *Language Teaching: Integrational Linguistic Approaches (Routledge Advances in Communication and Linguistic Theory)*. 2008.]

15. "It would of course have been preferable (as suggested by an anonymous referee) to aggregate such markings from different languages before choosing the set to be studied; however, there are several thousand verses in the New Testament containing quotes, and given the high number of irregularities in verb inflection this could not be easily automated and would be quite laborious to do by hand. Initially, the procedure yielded about 450 corpus items (each corpus item representing one verb rather than one verse)."[Szmrecsanyi, Benedikt, and Bernhard Walchli *Aggregating Dialectology, Typology, and Register Analysis*. De Gruyter, 2014.]