Created: 2025-12-25 18:08:07
Origin: searched
Selected: Reading in my hut one autumn evening, the sudden sound of a pomegranate cracking open riveted my attention. One night when I went out to drink water from the garden tap, I heard a long-haul truck barreling along a distant freeway, and another time, as steam rose around my dishwater, I felt the floor rumble with a passing train.[Cline, Ann *A Hut of One's Own: Life Outside the Circle of Architecture*. The MIT Press, 1998.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Reading in my hut one autumn evening, the sudden sound of a pomegranate cracking open riveted my attention. One night when I went out to drink water from the garden tap, I heard a long-haul truck barreling along a distant freeway, and another time, as steam rose around my dishwater, I felt the floor rumble with a passing train."[Cline, Ann *A Hut of One's Own: Life Outside the Circle of Architecture*. The MIT Press, 1998.]

02. "“My friends never quite understood my unwavering devotion (until they were the lucky few who earned a visit) or why I was okay with ‘missing out’ on the summer flings, basement hangouts, and baseball ‘superfanning,’ but there was nothing that would make me miss my lake time. ” Daughter Laura adds, “The cabin on the lake is our happy place."[Mulfinger, Dale *The Family Cabin: Inspiration for Camps, Cottages, and Cabins*. Newtown, CT: Taunton Press, 2017.]

03. "In 1974 my mother handed the Bible over to me, making me its sixth documented owner. My first-born, a daughter, will be its seventh. The pamphlet bears the maiden name, Phebe Howard, of the second wife of the Bible's first owner, and records the date, July 25, 1779, upon which it was "given to her," presumably by one whose name also appears (and whom I had wrongly assumed was the author), Polly Lewis."[Clark, Charles E. *The Meetinghouse Tragedy: An Episode in the Life of a New England Town*. New Hampshire, 1998.]

04. "But the primitive who awoke one day to find the jungle gone, would be at a loss. Let’s suppose though, that our hypothetical primitive has had occasion to roam, and has seen jungle, savannah, and desert."[Skrdla, Harry *Ghostly Ruins: America's Forgotten Architecture*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2006.]

05. "Unacknowledged, this kind of “we” can leave the reader, like the Queen’s subjects, out of the loop. Even so, I realized that my “we” was not evasive but actual; it had formed around a genuine collective that for nearly thirty years—sometimes loosely and sometimes formally—had grounded my thoughts about huts, architecture, and culture."[Cline, Ann *A Hut of One's Own: Life Outside the Circle of Architecture*. The MIT Press, 1998.]

06. "When, near the end of Mulholland Drive, a hit-man tells Diane Selwyn that a blue key will appear once he has carried out the murder, she feels compelled to ask: “What’s it open?” The man’s lengthy laughter in response reveals the hollowness of all on-screen objects: the key is a symbol—nothing more, nothing less—yet we are desperate, like Diane, to decipher its meaning."[Martin, Richard *The Architecture of David Lynch*. Bloomsbury Academic, 2014.]

07. "“Embrace The Mistakes,” I always tell my students. When (not if but when) you make a mistake, sometimes the lesson learned is invaluable. Better yet, sometimes the creative paths you have to invent to climb out of the error will make for a better, more daring and unique design or approach in the end product."[Stowe, Doug *Building small cabinets*. Newtown, CT: Taunton Press, 2011.]

08. "Not for our purposes. Because they exist inside our skulls, and that’s what counts. And only the least imaginative among us won’t feel them lurking in the shadows, just out of sight."[Skrdla, Harry *Ghostly Ruins: America's Forgotten Architecture*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2006.]

09. "It may be just that simple. Even nowadays, simple stories and their illustrations requite a child’s appetite for enchantment and imagination. More specifically, classic adventure stories, like Robinson Crusoe and Treasure Island, help ground this satisfaction in the real world, where fictitious forts and shelters likely bridge our earliest encounter to the primitive hut, even before we build our own."[Cline, Ann *A Hut of One's Own: Life Outside the Circle of Architecture*. The MIT Press, 1998.]

10. "When I’m asked my philosophy of country living as it’s expressed in this house, I respond with a single word: relaxed. It doesn’t make people feel uptight; everything is in bounds, and you don’t feel like you have to ask permission to go in or out and do as you please."[McCarthy, Brian J., Marc Kristal, and Bunny Williams (foreword) *Luminous Interiors: The Houses of Brian J. McCarthy*. Stewart, Tabori & Chang, 2013.]

11. "I'd like to thank everybody here. I declare the meeting closed. Speaker Mr. Chairman, Ladies and Gentlemen. It is a great honour to address this meeting (conference); I'd like to talk in my report about. . . First of all (in the first place) I'd like to name the main points of my paper."[Г.И., Железнякова *Civil Engineering Часть 1*. 2017.]

12. "They became so popular that a friend suggested I create a business making and selling them. I realised that I could use the Secret Pillow as a power vehicle for social change and decided to start the business after meeting a women’s group in India who were trained in tailoring, but who couldn’t stitch and sell products because there was no local market."[*Reclaim Magzine* 2017.]

13. "With images of "joy and bliss," "clear Streams," and "heavenly Love" fresh in mind, the reader is conveyed to the final stanza: That this be our happy Case When we this life do endt God grant of his Infinite grace threw Jesus Christ Amen Here the modern reader's eye is drawn first to the surprising, almost comical use of the formulaic prayer ending that constitutes the last line."[Clark, Charles E. *The Meetinghouse Tragedy: An Episode in the Life of a New England Town*. New Hampshire, 1998.]

14. "In other words, the table serves as my cheat sheet for figuring rafter Two Tools Make the Job Easier lengths. The multiplier times the run is the First, I make a story stick out of a 2-in. -wide in any good roof-framing book."[Homebuilding, Editors of Fine *Framing Roofs by Editors of Fine Homebuilding*. Taunton Press, 2013.]

15. "KH Absolutely, 100 per cent. I’ve been into homes that were dark and felt wrong in every way, so much so that I needed to get out, so if you lived in a space like that, it’s surely going to have an effect on you. But today anybody can paint their walls white and make it look brighter. It’s just not necessary to live in spaces that don’t feel right."[Hoppen, Kelly *House of Hoppen: A Retrospective*. Jacqui Small, 2016.]