Created: 2025-11-08 00:12:22
Origin: suggested
Selected: This means that computers of today are about two million times more powerful than the machines available to the Wrst MT researchers in the early 1960s. Second, there is now a huge amount text available in many languages, and a not inconsiderable amount of translated text, as well as resources such as bilingual dictionaries, language analysis tools (parsers, part-of-speech taggers), and so forth.[Sproat, Richard *Language, Technology, and Society*. 2010.]

--- Context List ---
01. ". Recommendations for linguists Computational Linguistics has often been divided into two extreme positions. On one hand the community of researchers involved in lexicography and computational treatment of texts have developed tools for the treatment of large amounts of linguistic data, as well as linguistic studies based mostly on statistics. This was true in the Sixties and early Seventies, when text processing was based on punched cards, the software definition of special characters and diacritics, and printing chains for those special characters, and is true now, when texts are marked-up and standardised by the use of exchange languages like SGML or XML."[Van Sterkenburg, P. G. J., and Republique tcheque International congress of linguists 17 Prague *Linguistics Today: Facing A Greater Challenge*. 2004.]

02. "It would be a formidable task to look at hundreds of properties in exploring the origin of language. Instead, I will investigate two properties of language from which many others derive, and for which there is a very broad consensus among scholars: Saussurean signs, and type-recursion. We can therefore rephrase Question 2 as follows: Question 2a: How and why did language evolve with Saussurean signs?Question 2b: How and why did language evolve with type-recursion?As Pinker and Jackendoff (2005: 217) remark, “Recursion is said to be human-speciﬁc, but no distinction is made between arbitrary recursive 8 The emergence of language mathematical systems and the particular kinds of recursive phrase structure found in human languages. ” I refer to the latter as ‘type-recursion’, embedding an element of type X within other X elements indeﬁnitely (Noun Phrase into Noun Phrase, Sentence into Sentence, PP into PP, and mixes thereof)."[Bouchard, Denis *Nature and Origin of Language*. Oxford University Press, 2013.]

03. "", excluding temporal reference as a structuring device, suggesting either an object-oriented organization or a structure which follows the spatial organization of the picture. The characteristics of the first text segment with respect to the referential movement correspond to what has been said for descriptive texts. The referential fillers show properties typical for this text type: the time reference is unspecified, and the predicates are all unbounded states. At the end of text CI the same picture emerges again."[Dietrich, Rainer, and Carl F Graumann *Language processing in social context*. North-Holland, 1989.]

04. "The crucial question is: how typical is this example for the overall pattern of aspect use across Slavic?In order to abstract away from individual instances, the procedures outlined in Section 2. 2. above were applied: all nonconsistent examples were coded in a matrix of contexts intersected with language versions of the text and the overall differences between these versions were aggregated into a distance matrix. This was visualized in a neighbor net graph, shown in Figure 4. A further graph, shown in Figure 5, is based on Explorations into variation across Slavic: Taking a bottom-up approach 305 Figure 4."[Szmrecsanyi, Benedikt, and Bernhard Walchli *Aggregating Dialectology, Typology, and Register Analysis*. De Gruyter, 2014.]

05. "The longest text, the IPSL rendition of a theatre play, is seven minutes long whereas the shortest texts only consist of a few signs. Besides the passages reproduced in the main part of this book there is a longer coherent text transcription from the data in Appendix A. During the interviews I tried on the one hand to touch upon as many different topics as possible."[Zeshan, Ulrike *Sign Language in Indo-Pakistan: A Description of a Signed Language*. 2000.]

06. "For example, simply ﬁnding a written version of a language facilitates its use for new purposes and new uses lead the language to be spoken more widely. Adapting computer software to accommodate the language may bring further advantages. Ultimately, however, people cease to speak a language because they come to identify with a different group, perhaps encouraged by factors of economic interest, perhaps inﬂuenced by governmental policy favoring one language above others in schools and ofﬁcial discourse."[Lightfoot, David *How New Languages Emerge*. 2006.]

07. "Thus, while in a given language A certain linguistic features would be critical in the process of constructing a perceptual organization, for a language B other features would convey more critical information and be functionally more relevant for the perceptual process. In language A, for example, specific syntactic features could be critically relevant for perception, while in a language B a more valid cue would be 118 Language perception provided by prosodic information. Accordingly, speakers of different languages might have learned to use various such cues differentially."[Newmeyer, Frederick J. *Linguistics: The Cambridge Survey: Volume 3, Language: Psychological and Biological Aspects (Linguistics, the Cambridge Survey)*. 1988.]

08. "A major problem of the current approach is that it disregards languageinternal diversity. Actually, restricting data to one text per language may be problematic since we cannot be sure that language-internal diversity is smaller than cross-linguistic diversity (see Dahl, this volume). This is why the term “doculect” is more appropriate than “language” here. However, using parallel texts also keeps register variation as constant as possible across languages, which is why the approach is not particularly useful for register analysis."[Szmrecsanyi, Benedikt, and Bernhard Walchli *Aggregating Dialectology, Typology, and Register Analysis*. De Gruyter, 2014.]

09. "This means that computers of today are about two million times more powerful than the machines available to the Wrst MT researchers in the early 1960s. Second, there is now a huge amount text available in many languages, and a not inconsiderable amount of translated text, as well as resources such as bilingual dictionaries, language analysis tools (parsers, part-of-speech taggers), and so forth."[Sproat, Richard *Language, Technology, and Society*. 2010.]

10. "Internet Relay Chat), instant messaging (ICQ, Yahoo!Instant Messenger), and graphical modes incorporating typed asynchronous and synchronous text (Second Life, Active Worlds). 1 These new modes of writing have spawned an academic specialty among linguists, sociologists, anthropologists, and communication researchers of ‘interactive written discourse’ (Ferrara et al. 1991), ‘electronic language’ (Collot and Belmore 1996), ‘Netspeak’ (Crystal 2006), or, most commonly, computer-mediated communication (CMC). 2 Compared to speech and to pre-digital writing, digital writing is, paradoxically, both doubly attenuated (diminished) and doubly enhanced (Figure 8. 1). 3 Digital text is attenuated because it lacks materiality."[Maybin, Janet, and Joan Swann *The Routledge Companion to English Language Studies (Routledge Companions)*. 2009.]

11. "While the distinction is present in every Slavic language, the distribution of aspectual forms across the paradigm varies and the details of aspectual marking vary from language to language. 4 Aspect is especially interesting for the given approach since it is both frequent and highly context dependent, which calls for an approach that is based on actual textual usage. In recent years, variation in the use of this category across Slavic languages has increasingly moved into focus (Dickey 2000; Petruchina 2000; Dickey and Kresin 2009; Benacchio 2010)."[Szmrecsanyi, Benedikt, and Bernhard Walchli *Aggregating Dialectology, Typology, and Register Analysis*. De Gruyter, 2014.]

12. "More recently, the focus has shifted from the computational; RST analysts have become more expansive, seeking connections with other linguistic approaches to text and trying to describe coherence in different languages and text types (Taboada 2007). APPROACHES TO REGISTER AND GENRE ANALYSIS Approaches to genre and register variation have also been much in evidence in analysis of discourse. The work of Halliday and others noted in Section 3. 2 applies register to the contextual variables necessary for the creation and interpretation of a text described in terms of the field, tenor and mode."[Maybin, Janet, and Joan Swann *The Routledge Companion to English Language Studies (Routledge Companions)*. 2009.]

13. "The tension between text and practice will remain as the advantages of searching large quantities of text with little contextual information are weighed against those of studying smaller quantities of text with greater attention to the complexity of the social practices in which they are embedded. 75 4 FROM VARIATION TO HYBRIDITY RAJEND MESTHRIE AND JOAN SWANN 4. 1 INTRODUCTION Chapters 2 and 3 distinguished approaches to the description and analysis of language that emphasise linguistic form, and approaches that seek to take into account the social context in which language is produced and interpreted."[Maybin, Janet, and Joan Swann *The Routledge Companion to English Language Studies (Routledge Companions)*. 2009.]

14. "All the texts I have used instruct the reader how to prepare foods, drinks, or medications. The texts in my corpus are from 6 different points in time between 1300 and 1600. On the basis of their phonological, morphological and lexical features, they have all been characterized as originating from the Flemish-Brabantish area, in other words from the northern part of Belgium. The texts have been dated by means of a variety of criteria: data about authors, printers, historical events described in the text, data about the manuscript, and phonological and morphological features."[(Ed.), Anders Ahlqvist *Papers from the 5th International Conference on Historical Linguistics, Galway, April 6–10 1981*. John Benjamins Publishing Company, 1982.]

15. "How language-independent is it?2. Can you make the Wne-grained distinctions that natural languages, and writing systems based on those languages, can make?3. How much easier is it to learn than the standard writing system for one’s own language or indeed any language?We have already addressed the question of language-independence. Certainly in Bliss’s writings there are a number of features of English (and presumably his native German) that appear. One can argue that one could have based it on some diVerent language: Chinese, or perhaps the native Australian language Warlbiri."[Sproat, Richard *Language, Technology, and Society*. 2010.]