Created: 2025-11-08 00:03:37
Origin: suggested
Selected: Yet he also changed, and in the chapters that follow I will return, time and again, to Ildefonso and examine what his transformation can tell us about the interaction between language and thought. But there is one more question we need to ask before we proceed on this journey. If we do indeed reach agreement with others by following linguistic categories made obligatory by our languages, why, how, and when do these languages change?[A., Pavlenko *The Bilingual Mind: And What It Tells Us about Language And Thought*. draft. CUP, 2014.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Yet he also changed, and in the chapters that follow I will return, time and again, to Ildefonso and examine what his transformation can tell us about the interaction between language and thought. But there is one more question we need to ask before we proceed on this journey. If we do indeed reach agreement with others by following linguistic categories made obligatory by our languages, why, how, and when do these languages change?"[A., Pavlenko *The Bilingual Mind: And What It Tells Us about Language And Thought*. draft. CUP, 2014.]

02. "Understanding, however, begins when a particular form of distancing takes place: the opening of a gap between my facticity, the way I am already, and the realm of my possibilities. Understanding, as we already know, means seeing possibility as possibility. In other words,understanding consists in projecting (Entwurf). This is atwo-pronged act: on the one hand, possibilities are `thrown' into future, into what-is-not-yet; on the other, possibilities so projected are re-projected, thrown back upon the actuality, thereby exposing it as an object of potential questioning, challenge, and change."[Bauman, Zygmunt *Hermeneutics and social science : approaches to understanding*. Reprint. Aldershot: Gregg Revivals, 1997.]

03. "The “yet” implies that should the formation of conscious which is ‘in itself’ further develop, then it may become self-conscious. What does it mean: a formation of consciousness (read ‘social movement’) which is not yet consciousness of itself?This only makes sense as an observer perspective, because if we are talking about a formation of consciousness which is not self-conscious, then the only terms we have in order to describe it are observer terms."[Blunden, Andy *Concepts : a critical approach*. Boston, Leiden: Brill, 2012.]

04. "Nay, more, this intellectual series is not tied to any sensuous conditions; and is therefore free from the condition of time, which requires it spontaneously to begin its causality in time. But such a procedure is perfectly inadmissible, as will be made plain from what follows. In the pure sense of the categories, that is contingent the contradictory opposite of which is possible."[Immanuel, Kant *Critique Of Pure Reason*. 2011.]

05. "Left unfettered, convention wanders freely from conventional wisdom through conventional medicine, conventions of art and ‘conventions of morality’ to conventions of bidding in bridge. 2 Surely it is unwise to try to fell these all with a single stone. Lewis’s original goal,however,pursued further in ‘Languages and Language’ (1996: 134–55), was to describe the conventionality of language, and this may be a more reasonable target. This chapter is aimed at that target."[Millikan, Ruth Garrett *Language: A Biological Model*. Oxford University Press, USA, 2005.]

06. "I deﬁne the condition in terms of coindexation because this is the most frequent formal means used to express the relation between two coreferential/agreeing elements. But this is not crucial: it could be any other procedure with formally similar effects, such as an arc in a general graph."[Bouchard, Denis *Nature and Origin of Language*. Oxford University Press, 2013.]

07. "So the answer to the question in the title of this chapter is that language changes are progressive, not in the sense that today’s languages are any better than those that preceded them, but in the sense that we have today more and more to say about the world. Our languages continue to adapt and expand the means to say it. Endnotes 1 Sampson et al. 2007’s edited collection goes into the question of complexity in detail. 2 Thomson 1947, p. 40, and see also Cassirer 1946, p. 135."[Beaken, Mike *The Making of Language*. 2nd. Edinburg: Dunedin, 2011.]

08. "But finitude without an infinite gives no sense. The infinite is, nautra rei, the primary; the finite is only because of and in regard to the infinite; it is secondary. That the infinite is “discovered” only by starting from the finite does not make any difference. We know of many instances in which that which is prior in nature (natura) is secondary in our knowledge (quoad nos). Nor should we be disturbed by the verbal form of negation. Language repeatedly has a negative name for what is actually the positive."[Allers, Rudolf, and Alexander Batthyany, Jorge Olaechea Catter (eds.) Andrew Tallon *Work and play : collected papers on the philosophy of psychology (1938-1963)*. Milwaukee, WI: Marquette University Press, 2009.]

09. "But according Scenarios for the emergence of language 27 to Calvin and Bickerton, this is too slow and we could fail: “We need something automatic, like what we have in language today” (2000: 141). For example, they say that it is much easier to parse (2) in current languages: “Since ‘take’ is a two-place and not a three-place predicate, we know there can’t be two more obligatory arguments, so again the plausible conclusion is that ‘Ug meat’ is a compound phrase of the type ‘possessor–possessed’” (p. 142)."[Bouchard, Denis *Nature and Origin of Language*. Oxford University Press, 2013.]

10. "The point of “just sitting” is not simply to sit in one’s zazen posture. Secondly, one does not sit in order to keep on sitting, but rather zazen, first practiced in the sitting posture, comes to be practiced in each and everything that one does. The tenzo practices zazen while procuring and preparing the food. There is even the zazen of dying (Dōgen 2002, 4). Thinking does not in itself negotiate the Way, for the manner of consciousness unleashed in zazen (what Dōgen calls jijuyū Samādhi) is not consciousness of a particular theoretical position."[Kuperus, Gerard, and Marjolein Oele (eds.) *Ontologies of Nature: Continental Perspectives and Environmental Reorientations*. Springer International Publishing, 2017.]

11. "*I can indeed say "my representations follow one another, or are successive"; but this means only that we are conscious of them as in a succession, that is, according to the form of the internal sense. Time, therefore, is not a thing in itself, nor is it any objective determination pertaining to, or inherent in things. SS 8 Elucidation. 30 The Critique of Pure Reason But the reason why this objection is so unanimously brought against our doctrine of time, and that too by disputants who cannot start any intelligible arguments against the doctrine of the ideality of space, is this− they have no hope of demonstrating apodeictically the absolute reality of space, because the doctrine of idealism is against them, according to which the reality of external objects is not capable of any strict proof."[Immanuel, Kant *Critique Of Pure Reason*. 2011.]

12. "The intimate order is not reached if it is not elevated to the authenticity and authority of the real world and real humanity. This implies, as a matter of fact, the replacement of compromises by a bringing of its contents to light in the domain of clear and autonomous consciousness that science has organized. It implies SELF-CONSCIOUSNESS taking up the lamp that science has made to illuminate objects and directing it toward intimacy… What is required by self-consciousness is not really the destruction of the order of things."[Gremmels, Scott William *From Psychoanalysis to Schizoanalysis: Chaos and Complexity in Therapeutic Practice*. 2019.]

13. "As the author him self notes in preparatory notes, this is an ontological and epistemological problem, which also involves a value judgment, that is an “axiontological” problem. It is a “reflexive” problem, i. e. , a philosophical problem."[Simondon, Gilbert, and Cecile Malaspina *On the Mode of Existence of Technical Objects*. Paperback. Univocal Publishing, 2017.]

14. "However, I cannot guarantee writing an article. At present, it is only a possibility, indeed a contingency. Meanwhile, I am very eagerly awaiting your reply to this letter. Very sincerely yours, David Bohm P. S. A physicist does not discard an older law when a newer and better one is found. He shows that the older law is contained in the newer one as an approximation or a limiting case (as Newton’s laws of motion are A New Vision of Totality 35 contained in Einstein’s laws as an approximation holding for velocities small compared with those of light)."[Biederman, Charl *Bohm-Biederman Correspondence*. 1999.]

15. "In this way, I retain the valid features of past knowledge, while dropping those that are false. So I could say that understanding is comprehensive (i. e. , non-exclusive negation). The essence of process or act is comprehensive negation. Thus, if a person says “I am walking”, this implies an “I” or an “Ego” who is the subject, and who initiates the act of walking. But if one says “I am in the act of walking”, this means that the act is first. This act contains (or comprehends) both “I” and the “walking”."[Biederman, Charl *Bohm-Biederman Correspondence*. 1999.]