Created: 2025-11-16 15:00:02
Origin: suggested
Selected: 22 Words are acoustical signs for concepts; concepts, however, are more or less definite image signs for often recurring and associated sensations, for groups of sensations. To understand one another, it is not enough that one use the same words; one also has to use the same words for the same species of inner experiences; in the end one has to have one’s experience in common. Therefore the human beings of one people understand one another better than those belonging to different peoples even if they employ the same language; or rather when human beings have long lived together under similar conditions (of climate, soil, danger, needs, and work), what results23 from this is people who “understand24 one another”—a people.[Nietzsche, Friedrich *Beyond Good & Evil*. Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group, 2010.]

--- Context List ---
01. "The computer read off the mass of a particle along one axis, its lifetime along another, and the g-factor along a third, all colour-coded according to the various quantum numbers possessed by the particle in question - charge, spin, parity, etc. 'And one of the crucial features Ng-Robinson introduced is a key intensity factor which indicates the probability of the detection being a reliable one. A very sharp bright image indicates firm identification of a particle, while a fuzzy one implies there may be some considerable uncertainty as to the suggested identification of an actual particle."[Aldiss, Brian W., and Roger Penrose *White Mars*. 2000.]

02. "As part of the five-year research program, the scholars examined computer logs documenting the behavior of visitors to two popular research sites, one operated by the British Library and one by a U. K. educational consortium, that provide access to journal articles, e-books, and other sources of written information. They found that people using the sites exhibited “a form of skimming activity,” hopping from one source to another and rarely returning to any source they’d already visited."[Cohen, Samuel *50 Essays: A Portable Anthology*. 5th ed. Bedford / St. Martin’s, 2016.]

03. "It is easy to show examples. The points of the X-axis whose abscissae are 0 or positive can be put into one-to-one correspondence with those whose abscissae are greater than or equal to any chosen positive number. Or again, if we take the two ordered sequences 1, 2, o, 4, ,,. , Ι2, 22, 32, 42, . . . there is a one-to-one correspondence between them, but the second sequence contains only a minor portion of the first. Here Bolzano stands on the brink of taking a great forward step, that of describing the Machtigkeit or power of an infinite assemblage, and showing that not all infinite assemblages are equivalent in the sense that they can be put in one-to-one correspondence with one another."[Coolidge, Julian Lowell, and Jeremy Gray *The mathematics of great amateurs*. 2nd ed. Oxford :, New York: Clarendon Press; Oxford University Press, 1990.]

04. "22 Words are acoustical signs for concepts; concepts, however, are more or less definite image signs for often recurring and associated sensations, for groups of sensations. To understand one another, it is not enough that one use the same words; one also has to use the same words for the same species of inner experiences; in the end one has to have one’s experience in common. Therefore the human beings of one people understand one another better than those belonging to different peoples even if they employ the same language; or rather when human beings have long lived together under similar conditions (of climate, soil, danger, needs, and work), what results23 from this is people who “understand24 one another”—a people."[Nietzsche, Friedrich *Beyond Good & Evil*. Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group, 2010.]

05. "(Everything is ready, except that what is beyond human control) ----------------- 47 Part II: Character Tables 48 Abbreviations anc. arch. archit. bot. Bud. c. derog. electr. electron. euph. expr. f. fig. geog. gram. inf. instr. lit. M ancient archaic architecture botany Buddhism circa derogatory electricity electronics euphemism expresses formal figuratively geography grammatical informal instrument literature used in Mainland China mech. med. met. meteor. mil. mod. mus. mw. onom. pharm. phys. physiol. prep. pron. sb. sth. T translit."[Van Amstel, Adrian *Chinese Character Dictionary: A New Approach to Arranging, Explaining and Looking Up Chinese Characters*. Paperback. Createspace Independent Publishing Platform, 2016.]

06. "document n . 1. ( r e c o r d i n g d i v i s i o n o f l a n d ) dream 1 . n . mx5da. 2. v. mxzda m x 5 b a 1 . dress - form o f n . pogaka' . banda p a t r a . 2. (used t o determine astrologi c a l l y auspicious days) d r e s s e d - u p a. thetaraa'. mxuda. d r i f t i n g l y av. dog n . ri'li lili. nagi. d r i n k v. t h Z ' ba. d o m e s t i c animal n . khyodo. donkey n gadaa. drinking v e s s e l n . . 1. b x a a g Z 8 n a , l o d a a ' . door n . mraa', dxogaa', doorway n ."[Glover, Warren W., Jessie R. Glover, and Deu Bahadur Gurung *Gurung-Nepali-English dictionary. With English-Gerung and Nepali-Gerung indexes*. Canberra: The Australian National University, 1977.]

07. "One should not hesitate to ask his teacher questions, though they may seem simple or silly. In English, it is said that there are five friends of a person – the four Ws and one H, namely, What, When, Why, Where and How. If one makes use of these friends, he can learn everything about a topic. The next step will be to listen carefully to what the teacher says. One should be attentive and listen. One should analyse, recollect frequently and remember the facts. Sanskrit has three terms for this: shravana (hearing), mañana (thinking), and nidhidhyasana (constant musing)."[Suhas, B. R. *Immortal Sayings: From Indian Scriptures and Classics*. V&S Publishers, 2012.]

08. "Probably you are inferring something about how the image was constructed. You have guessed—correctly—that I made the image using software. At some level, the lines of the cow cartoon are defined, mathematically, as curves. At that level, there is just one cow, a purely formal one. My software allows one abstract entity to participate in a recurring but varied series of particular, sensible manifestations. To look at these three cows and see only one is not a case of overlooking real differences, slurring similarity into identity."[Holbo, John, and Belle Waring *Reason & Persuasion: Three Dialogues by Plato: Euthyphro, Meno, Republic, Book 1*. 3rd ed. Pearson Education, 2010.]

09. "See below. stimulus (肥皂水～了眼睛 my eyes got irritated by soap) 7. (used after a verb) in the extreme; exceedingly (笑～人 extremely funny) 8. ruin; damage (大～风景 ruin the scenery) 脎 sà kind of organic compound (osa- zone) [铩] 鎩 shā 1. (anc. )kind of long spear 2. (lit. )wreck; disable 271 杀 [茶] [杂] 水 淼 汆 滎 [荥] - [ [刹 ] 剎 chà 1 ]水 Buddhist temple or monastery (～多罗) [刹 2] 剎 shā / chà chá Simplified form of 茶 (S10 人), which consists of the phonetic 余 and 艹 (plants): tea almond tea) 4. tea-oil tree (Camellia oleifera) (～油 cháyóu tea-seed oil; tea oil) 5. camellia 3 [茶] [茶] 茶 chá 1. tea plant 2. tea (喝～ héchá drink tea) 3. drinks made by immersing herbs, etc."[Van Amstel, Adrian *Chinese Character Dictionary: A New Approach to Arranging, Explaining and Looking Up Chinese Characters*. Paperback. Createspace Independent Publishing Platform, 2016.]

10. "make; cause a2 箄 pái 1. a kind of raft 2. logs or bamboo poles bound together and floating on the water in order to be transported 1 6 10 車 車 轟 輿 連 軍 車 is a left radical and a bottom radical chē Wheels (二) and body (日) of an ancient carriage. suing funds (國～ guókù national treasury) 4. system for storing data on a computer 1 chē 1. vehicle (馬～ măchē disc (數據～ database) 5. short for ～侖 kùlún coulomb 6. a surname horse-driven carriage) 2. an instrument 2 that uses wheels to perform its function shè 1. village; hamlet (of(風～ fēngchē windmill) 3. machine (開～ ten used in place names) 2. a surname kāichē start a machine) 4. use a lathe to kù trousers; pants (～子) work on (～光 chēguāng smooth a piece of metal on a lathe) 5. use a waterwheel chē 1. as in ～磲 chēqú giant to draw water (～水 chēshuĭ) 6. a surclam; tridacna 2. a kind of precious stone name zhèn 1. battle formation (長 2 jū (Chs."[Van Amstel, Adrian *Chinese Character Dictionary: A New Approach to Arranging, Explaining and Looking Up Chinese Characters*. Paperback. Createspace Independent Publishing Platform, 2016.]

11. "A motion with the motion. But what if one were not to extrapolate a movement, but to predict one ?"[INPUT: Hovestadt and Bühlmann - 2014 - Domesticating symbols metalithikum. II.pdf]

12. "1 . ( b o x ) baagasa. 2 . ( o f t r e e ) m u l l xSSga'. t u r t l e n. trust tusk n. 1. n . b i g w a a s . 2. v . b i r w a a s mxSSdiba. kachuwaa ' daare. t w e l f t h day o f dasaE n . trustworthiness n. duwaadasi. bxar. t w e l v e num. t r u s t w o r t h y , be v . baa r a biJwaas mxSBdiba. . t w e n t y num. truth n. bis, gxisyu. saccaal. twenty-one num. truthful a. ekaais. sajan. t w e n t y - f o u r num. truthfulness n. c a u b i s. imaansaal t h . t w e n t y - n i n e num. t r y n. unantis, untis. kozis'. twice av."[Glover, Warren W., Jessie R. Glover, and Deu Bahadur Gurung *Gurung-Nepali-English dictionary. With English-Gerung and Nepali-Gerung indexes*. Canberra: The Australian National University, 1977.]

13. "Assume at least four subordinate tracks, one sustaining dis attended events, one directional, one overlaid communication, and one matters for concealment. Second, the laminations. The strip under question presumably CONCLUSIONS 565 has none. Neither a keying is present nor a deception. Certainly such straightforwardness is possible. But one should see that it is not likely for a very long period of time. And often effort will have had to be exerted to ensure even this. The absence of laminations is to be seen, then, as something worth seeing."[Goffman, Erving *Frame Analysis. An Essay on the Organization of Experience*. Northeastern University Press, 1986.]

14. "through- Throughout t h e winter. [Syn. ti'nxZSga. 1 t i ' l e see t i ' n a l e t i j y u ' n. ti-' [TB * t ( y ) i k = * ( g - ) t y i k n . 2 5 1 , n . 2711 num. o n e . tigag'. One day. tigur. One yoke o f oxen. ti'di'. One year. t i 'na de' . A l i t t l e portion of cooked v e g e t a b l e . ti'syaa. One moment. [Syn. g x r i ' . I ti' * n . sibling o f same s e x a s s e l f . a a b t i ' pxasimaZ. Father's brothers ' chi ldren. aam t i ' p x a s i m a z . sisters ' Mother's children."[Glover, Warren W., Jessie R. Glover, and Deu Bahadur Gurung *Gurung-Nepali-English dictionary. With English-Gerung and Nepali-Gerung indexes*. Canberra: The Australian National University, 1977.]

15. "(1979) To search for information An ability to find things pump (1656) Applied to persistent questioning to elicit information a n o s e f o r (1875) • J . Cassells: He was a damned good reporter. . . and he had a nose for a story. (1972) 26. Intrusion poke (stick, shove, etc. )one's nose in (1611) • Mark Pattison: A flourishing Evangelical, who poked his nose into everything. (1883) stick (shove, get, etc. )one's oar in (1630) • J . R. Ackerly: One who preferred to stand outside of life and observe it, not (as he would have phrased it) to 'put one's oar in'."[Ayto, John *The Oxford Dictionary of Slang*. Dunod: Oxford University Press, USA, 2000.]