Created: 2025-12-26 01:24:41
Origin: suggested
Selected: Perhaps considered to be the dirty or untamed element continuous with landscape, the floor  has always been obsessively cleaned -  even scrubbed, polished and made to gleam. In th e PAGE 64 FLOOR 1843 "I then took up three planks from the flooring of the chamber,  and deposited all between the scantlings. I then replaced the boards  so cleverly, so cunningly, that no human eye-not even his-could  have detected any thing wrong. " — Edgar Allen Poe, The Tell-Tale Heart  (illustrated by Daniel Horowitz, 2012) 1521 Vaulted floor, illustrated by Cesare Cesariano,  ready for the introduction of pipes. [INPUT: floor.pdf]

--- Context List ---
01. "Perhaps considered to be the dirty or untamed element continuous with landscape, the floor  has always been obsessively cleaned -  even scrubbed, polished and made to gleam. In th e PAGE 64 FLOOR 1843 "I then took up three planks from the flooring of the chamber,  and deposited all between the scantlings. I then replaced the boards  so cleverly, so cunningly, that no human eye-not even his-could  have detected any thing wrong. " — Edgar Allen Poe, The Tell-Tale Heart  (illustrated by Daniel Horowitz, 2012) 1521 Vaulted floor, illustrated by Cesare Cesariano,  ready for the introduction of pipes. "[INPUT: floor.pdf]

02. "now be returning to architecture for an important chapter in its history as something like an expressive  software for space with enormous powers to shape building morphology. But that is just one of many  unexploited capacities of the floor - an element for the "non-modern" man. 1 ground In many languages the word for the surface underfoot shares etymologies with pavement, plate,  or other flat things. The English word "floor," most immediately comes from Middle English,  as in, "What houndes liggen in the floor adoun" from Geoffrey Chaucer's Canterbury Tales (1475). 2  "[INPUT: floor.pdf]

03. "From Neolithic times onward, in  cultures all around the world, the threshing floor was a place of work but also a place of gathering,  dancing, ritual, and worship. It evolved into the square or plaza -  the meeting ground of the demos. A place of assembly and negotiation, it is then perhaps the first "floor," as that word is used in  "the floor of the parliament" or "the floor of the stock exchange. ""[INPUT: floor.pdf]

04. "The textural details of previous occupants are kept intact 4. There is a map-like pattern on the concrete floor 5. It is a space of pure white 6. Different areas have different lightings 1. 白色的墙壁从天花板一直延伸到地板 2. 顾客在等候时可以阅读杂志 3. 从前租户所留下的印记被原封不动地保留了下来 4. 水泥地面上有一块类似地图的图案 5. 这是一个纯白的空间 6. 不同区域的灯光不同 1 4 5 2 3 3 6 230 - 231 1. Reception 2. Waiting area 3. Cutting area 4."[Chang, Catherine *Beauty Salons*. Liaoning Science & Technology Publishing House, Profession Design Press, 2011.]

05. "At the waiting area, the wood floor pattern breaks the normal long-running board pattern with cross-stitched short boards slowing the visitor down. In the lounge area a brick floor with a simple running bond pattern define the informal dining area. At the kitchen visitors walk on an antiqued hexagonal brick floor. Even in the bathrooms, a carefully considered large stone floor pattern support a larger series of discrete experiences that work overall to quietly engage the visitor into quiet contemplation."[Du (Editor), Darren *New Art Deco Style*. Design Media Publishing Ltd, 2011.]

06. "The walls are a large “plane. ” The sofa is a large “plane. ” The floor coverings and floor are large planes. My apartment might be a fun example to analyze . . . Our dining room and living room have zany painted floors—a deep beigey color coupled with a crisp white to make a wild, but not too wild, checkerboard floor. The walls pull from the white in the floor—a quiet “plane” in contrast with the “pop” of the painted floors."[Salway, Christina, and Monica Pedersen *Home improvement projects for the busy & broke: how to get your $h!t together and live like an adult*. Skyhorse Publishing, 2016.]

07. "Outside becomes in, inside becomes out. Lighting armatures and lighting levels were very important because of the function of the space, and soft lighting combines with natural materials to create a warm, welcoming feel. 在室内的表面设计中，马赛克、天然石材、木材、玻璃和镜 子等材料相互作用，打造出了一曲和谐的乐章。设计师精心 挑选了一些图案、海报和标语贴在墙面上，为空间增添了浪 漫的感觉。 2 1. Wood floor in cutting area creates a relaxing atmosphere 2."[Chang, Catherine *Beauty Salons*. Liaoning Science & Technology Publishing House, Profession Design Press, 2011.]

08. "Then, there’s a simple neutral sisal rug on the floor, which adds texture, ties into the color of the beige floor squares, and adds a little calm to the room. Sofa: quiet. Also beigey. Pillows: mixture of quiet and “wow,” drawing from the other patterns, colors, and materials in the room to inform a balance of “wow” on an otherwise neutral piece. This might sound a little milquetoast at first glance, but then POP!"[Salway, Christina, and Monica Pedersen *Home improvement projects for the busy & broke: how to get your $h!t together and live like an adult*. Skyhorse Publishing, 2016.]

09. "General view of the salon 5. The tiles link the interior and exterior spaces 6. Wood floor adds warmth to the space 1. 店面夜景 2. 瓷砖的渐变是沙龙的主要特征 3. 一个舒适的洗发床 4. 沙龙全景 5. 瓷砖将室内外空间连接起来 6. 木地板增添了空间的温馨感 10 4 5 11 3 6 6 6 7 12  2 1  1 - 1 1. Entrance 2. Reception/waiting area 3. Setting area 4. Staff room 5. Toilet 6. Staircase 7. Cutting area 8. Waiting area 9. Shampoo area 10."[Chang, Catherine *Beauty Salons*. Liaoning Science & Technology Publishing House, Profession Design Press, 2011.]

10. "à terre [ah tehr]—On the floor; refers to movements performed with the working leg touching the floor as opposed to in the air."[Kassing, Gayle *Beginning ballet*. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2013.]

11. "‘It enables us to navigate the junctions of public and private space, and somehow the plan eases movement within its clear circulation system. In practical terms, it means areas can be closed off and different points of access used. ’ This is necessary when people want to enter the gallery space run by Michael. This expansive, window-lined room faces the street, and here an atmosphere of containment has been engineered by raising the floor by 300mm and building a plywood insert which forms the floor, extensive shelving for books, walls and areas for the display of Michael’s highly curated objects and works of art."[McCartney, Karen *The Alchemy of Things: Interiors Shaped by Curious Minds*. Allen & Unwin, 2018.]

12. "The STC room (9 for normal conditions, 15 for rating required for this purpose depends on confidential conversations) how loudly the persons in the source room may A2 = area, sq ft, of floor of receiving room speak; the sound absorption of walls, floor and S = surface area, sq ft, of common barrier ceiling in the source and receiving rooms; the between the rooms surface area of the common barrier; the degree IL2 = background noise level, dBA, for maskof privacy required in the receiving room, and ing in receiving room the background noise level in the receiving room."[Merritt, Frederick S., and James Ambrose (auth.) *Building Engineering and Systems Design*. Springer US, 1989.]

13. "2. 1. Structure To provide a flat, horizontal surface on which desired human activities can take place, all buildings contain at least one floor. In primitive buildings, the ground may be used as the floor. In better buildings, the floor may be a deck laid on the ground or supported above ground on structural members, such as the joist indicated in Fig."[Merritt, Frederick S., and James Ambrose (auth.) *Building Engineering and Systems Design*. Springer US, 1989.]

14. "Another example of concealed storage is the grooved timber, lit up to highlight their contours and the bust by Ralph Brown. Assessing a space and planning the layout is something that has always come naturally to me because I find it very easy to visualize a room in three dimensions – a cuboid made up of six vertical and horizontal planes: four walls, a ceiling and a floor."[Hoppen, Kelly *House of Hoppen: A Retrospective*. Jacqui Small, 2016.]

15. "The primary concern of this text is space planning, not design presentation. Despite this, the language of space planning is the floor plan, and its graphic qualities cannot be entirely ignored. One of the premises of the planning methodology presented here is that the transition from the rough floor plan to the preliminary or presentation floor plan is part of the planning process, not just a graphic refinement."[Karlen, Mark, and Rob Fleming *Space Planning Basics*. 4th ed. Wiley, 2016.]