Created: 2025-12-28 13:39:21
Origin: suggested
Selected: Life went on. I drifted away from my very lovely twenty-year-old girlfriend and packed for a cross-country road trip. I’d recently purchased a small cottage in the Hollywood Hills and figured I’d winter out west in the California sunshine. This was the trip where the ambivalence, trouble and toxic confusion I’d had volcanically bubbling for thirty-two years would finally reach critical mass. The Trip It was a ’69 Ford XL with a white ragtop, sea green and Cadillac long.[Springsteen, Bruce *Born to Run*. Simon & Schuster, 2016.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Life went on. I drifted away from my very lovely twenty-year-old girlfriend and packed for a cross-country road trip. I’d recently purchased a small cottage in the Hollywood Hills and figured I’d winter out west in the California sunshine. This was the trip where the ambivalence, trouble and toxic confusion I’d had volcanically bubbling for thirty-two years would finally reach critical mass. The Trip It was a ’69 Ford XL with a white ragtop, sea green and Cadillac long."[Springsteen, Bruce *Born to Run*. Simon & Schuster, 2016.]

02. "The sun bright you tore your new pants. Wonder when. Thorns and all that barbed wire fencing. Lucky you don't have lockjaw. Don't lean too far over that rail now. Feel the air pushing up at you. You could float, just for a second. Kinetic energy of a Mack truck: one- half mass energy squared. Eighty thousand pounds times eighty miles per hour square it over two. Except you need feet per second. Alright a hundred fifteen, then. Five hundred twenty- nine million foot- pounds. Your weight, one hundred ten pounds."[Meyer, Philipp *American Rust*. Spiegel & Grau, 2009.]

03. "Printed in Japan. ISBN 4-06-186051-8 First edition, 1989 Sixth printing, 1990 Chapter 1 7 Chapter 2 21 Chapter 3 51 Chapter 4 91 Chapter 5 163 Chapter 6 172 NOTES 275 CHAPTER 1 Here I am, thirty-seven years old, seated in a Boeing 747. The giant plane is diving into a thick cover of clouds, about to land at Hamburg Airport. A chill November rain darkens the land, turning the scene into a gloomy Flemish painting. The . airport workers in their rain gear, the flags atop the faceless airort buildings, the BMW billboards, everything."[Murakami, Haruki *Norwegian Wood (Vol. 1, Birnbaum translation)*. Kodansha, 1989.]

04. "), and at fifteen chose another one. I wanted out of New York, where I went to university at Columbia. I wanted out of the United States. In 1985, I cycled around Europe for six months; one hundred miles a day in wretched weather fortified a lifetime appetite for unnecessary suffering. The next year, I spent six months in Israel, including three on a kibbutz in the Galilee helping to manufacture waterproof plastic boots. Thereafter, I shifted “temporarily” to Belfast, where I remained based for twelve years."[Shriver, Lionel *The Female of the Species*. Harper Perennial, 2009.]

05. "I’m middle-aged, and, for the first time in thirty years, I feel invincible. Part III (After) One On the return flight from Tokyo, I pulled out my notebook and did a little calculating. Between the plane tickets, the three-month apartment rental, the school tuition, and the unused patches and lozenges, it had cost close to twenty thousand dollars to quit smoking. That’s 2 million yen and, if things keep going the way they have been, around 18 euros. Figuring that I bought most of my cigarettes duty-free, and annually paid about twelve hundred dollars for them, in order to realize any savings I’d have to live for another seventeen years, by which time I’d be sixty-eight and clinging to life by a thread."[Sedaris, David *When You Are Engulfed in Flames*. Reprint. Back Bay Books, 2009.]

06. "I kept my secret to myself until I was twenty years old, and I might have kept it even longer had a couple not picked me up when I was hitchhiking one night. It was 1:00 a. m. , and the last thing I expected was a ride in a Cadillac. Stranger still was opening the back door and discovering that the people inside were old — my parents’ age, at least. The car smelled of hair tonic. A CB radio crackled from its berth beside the steering wheel, and I wondered who they could be talking to at this time of night."[Sedaris, David *When You Are Engulfed in Flames*. Reprint. Back Bay Books, 2009.]

07. "We rode in the older Cadillac with the backseat removed so he could haul groceries. Lou had not just one Cadillac but two. He got a new car every other year, leasing it and writing it off as a business expense. His newest vehicle would be his prized possession, a symbol of success others in the neighborhood surely recognized. Lou had earned that success the old-fashioned way: through guts, grit, and hard work. The South Water Market where Lou took me bustled with a hundred aromas and a thousand items to choose from."[Cain, Jonathan *Don’t Stop Believin’: The Man, the Band, and the Song that Inspired Generations*. Zondervan, 2018.]

08. ""Not anymore. "Dad couldn't get his head around it. "Eddie," he said, "twenty-five years. Would that mean you were married when we met in Paris?"Eddie smiled, as if that were an answer and not another question. We left the airport bewildered. We were not just in another country but another galaxy, one in which Eddie had been married for twenty-five years. Outside, the heat hit us forcefully. We all piled into an old olive-green Mercedes and sped off to the hotel."[Toltz, Steve *A Fraction of the Whole*. Reprint. Random House Publishing Group, 2008.]

09. "And so on. And then there were the deaths. Well, hell. Twenty-five years. You have to expect a certain amount of mortality over that great a span of time. The bulk of the world's leaders had been well along in years, and it wasn't all that much of a surprise that they were no longer with us. Nixon was dead, and Agnew, and well, dozens of others. Jack Benny, that perennial thirty-nine-year-old, had left us not long after my body temperature plunged; George Burns, on the other hand, had lived to be a hundred."[Block, Lawrence *Tanner on Ice*. 2012.]

10. "Houston, Texas, to Cambridge, Massachusetts. I'd had the kids in our ten-year-old Subaru the whole drive, two car seats and a booster across the back. Alexander kept taking Toby's string cheese, and the baby, except when he was sleeping, was fussing. Peter drove the U-Haul on the theory that if it broke, he ‘d know how to fix it. On the road, I was sure I had the short end of the stick, especially during the dog hours of Tennessee. But now Peter was hauling all our belongings up three flights of narrow stairs, and I was at the park, on a blanket in the late-afternoon shade, breast-feeding Baby Sam."[Katherine Center [Center, Katherine] *Everyone Is Beautiful: A Novel*. Random House Publishing Group, 2009.]

11. "I pulled up opposite the house, on the other side of the road. —In two hundred yards, make a U-turn, Emma suggested. Without turning the engine off, I got out of the car and stood leaning for a while, against the passenger door, looking across at the house. This was where I had lived for thirteen years, starting in 1967. Me, Mum and Dad. It hadn’t changed, not in the slightest. I stood looking at it for another two or three minutes, shivering slightly in the March breeze, then got back into the car and drove on."[Coe, Jonathan *The Terrible Privacy of Maxwell Sim*. Knopf, 2011.]

12. "The old Munia would have been wearing shorts and a T-shirt, or the fashion of twelve years ago; this Munia managed to make her twenty-year-old face look adult. It was partly to do with the way she did her hair, long on one side, short on the other, shot through—were those stars?—with something that twinkled impossibly between curls like fairy lights. ‘I am exhausted, Rags. I mean, they warned me the trip would be rough, they did, but honestly, I thought it would be more advanced than that, we are in the twenty-sixth century after all, I said to Xidyion."[Madhavan, Meenakshi Reddy *Before, and Then After*. Westland, 2015.]

13. "All I know is that's how long it took, and it was an intensive six months. I was at it twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, with time out for meals and not much else. Even the exercise I got, which consisted of walks around the city, was a sort of busman's holiday; I tried to take a different route each time and acquaint myself with changes in the neighborhoods. Mostly I read. Every week I went through a solid year of newsmagazines - Time or Newsweek, I alternated between them, plus the "Week in Review" section of the Sunday Times."[Block, Lawrence *Tanner on Ice*. 2012.]

14. "I’m not sure I will live to be twenty-eight years old, but then again, so many beautiful things have happened to me in the last three years. The world owes me nothing. When people fear death, it’s a complete case of insecurity. Your body is only a physical vehicle to carry you from one place to another without getting into a lot of trouble."[Hendrix, Jimi *Starting At Zero: His Own Story*. Bloomsbury Publishing PLC, 2013.]

15. "Not bad, but it wasn’t going to win me any prizes. I had been hoping for an average of sixty-five or more. Was I doing something wrong?After negotiating the roundabout and joining the High Wycombe road, I slowed down to forty-five miles an hour, and immediately my fuel efficiency began to rise. I seemed to be averaging between seventy-five to eighty miles to the gallon now, so I drove at this speed for another mile or so, until the driver stuck in the lane behind me started angrily flashing his lights."[Coe, Jonathan *The Terrible Privacy of Maxwell Sim*. Knopf, 2011.]

16. "He smells disinfected and doesn’t stay all night. This is what I have done: I took the passenger-side shoulder harness out of my Town of Lake Glen truck and bolted it with long screw anchors to the side of the dam, behind the catwalk. I buckle up when I fish. I don’t want to be pulled into the water. Randy is twenty years old and already has two children. He is not married. His girlfriend is tall and skinny and mean-looking. Randy says she fucks like a cat."[Martone, Michael, Lex Williford, and Rosellen Brown *The Scribner Anthology of Contemporary Short Fiction: Fifty North American American Stories Since 1970*. Touchstone, 1999.]

17. "It’s already happened quite a few times and is happening as we speak. Long live rock!(Whatever that may be. )Induction Come ’98 I got the word I was to be inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. It’d been twenty-five years since the release of Greetings from Asbury Park and that was the criterion for inclusion. Our old paradox would be revisited. I’d long ago signed as a solo artist and recorded as “Bruce Springsteen” for twenty-five years."[Springsteen, Bruce *Born to Run*. Simon & Schuster, 2016.]

18. "He looked at the images over and over again, six-seven-eight-nine-ten times. All of these women were lifting a suitcase that looked like Paula’s, a black Samsonite. Some had trouble lifting them. Others just heaved the suitcase in, no matter the height. He compared them with the photographs they had of the twenty-nine-year-old woman. Almost thirty-year-old. She hadn’t really reached that age when some people suddenly feel old."[Edwardson, Åke *Room No. 10*. New York: Simon & Schuster, 2013.]

19. "So we’re leaving from Beirut. Not that this is a straightforward undertaking. In recent years, this version of the road to Damascus has hosted its share of upheaval. In 2005, Syrian troops withdrew along it, having been forced by massive popular protests to end their twenty-nine-year occupation of Lebanon following the immense bomb blast in Beirut that killed Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri."[Mueller, Andrew *Rock and Hard Places: Travels to Backstages, Frontlines and Assorted Sideshows*. Soft Skull Press, Inc., 2010.]

20. "As if just having it wasn’t reason enough. “Right!” said Simon, holding up his car keys. “To the Fusion!” We drove in a convoy back to Loughborough—me and Anil in the Mini, Simon in his silver Ford Fusion minivan. “Isn’t it funny that Simon’s got a Ford Fusion people carrier?” I said. “It’s the new Simon. If it was still the old Simon, it’d be a Ford Cortina with no hubcaps. ” “If it was the old Simon, it’d be a nine-year-old boy driving a car,” said Anil. “But it’s funny seeing him drive. It’s funny how we’ve all been separated, but all gone through some of the same things."[Wallace, Danny *Friends Like These: My Worldwide Quest to Find My Best Childhood Friends, Knock on Their Doors, and Ask Them to Come Out and Play*. Little, Brown & Company, 2009.]

21. "I discovered this for the first time when I was three years old and a long way from my hometown of Chicago. The country between Illinois and Arkansas fascinated me since I’d never been out of the city before. Dad had left the small town of Paris and the segregated South behind when he left home at sixteen and hopped a train to St. Louis. Years later in the summer of 1953, he decided to take us on a road trip in his shiny new Olds to visit his family eleven hours away."[Cain, Jonathan *Don’t Stop Believin’: The Man, the Band, and the Song that Inspired Generations*. Zondervan, 2018.]

22. "She’s wearing heavy, tan cowboy boots and a dark brown, suede cowboy hat, lumpy jeans and a yellow tee shirt that clings to her arms, breasts, and round belly like the skin of a sausage. Though he will later learn that she is thirty-eight years old, she looks older by about ten years, which makes her look about twenty years older than he actually is. (It’s difficult to guess accurately how old Ron is; he looks anywhere from a mature twenty-five to a youthful forty, so his actual age doesn’t seem to matter. )"[Martone, Michael, Lex Williford, and Rosellen Brown *The Scribner Anthology of Contemporary Short Fiction: Fifty North American American Stories Since 1970*. Touchstone, 1999.]

23. "I was fifty-eight years old, my life was in ruins, and yet I didn’t feel too bad about it. When all was said and done, I actually felt pretty good. Molly’s medical bills had wiped out whatever cash we’d managed to save. I was four months behind on the rent, the landlord was threatening to evict me, and the only thing I owned was my car—a seven-year-old Ford Fairlane with a dented grille and a faulty carburetor. About three days after I left the hospital, my favorite nephew called me from Denver about a job."[Auster, Paul *Mr. Vertigo*. Penguin Books, 1995.]

24. "“But it’s just continued every year. I didn’t think . . . ” “That’s because it’s been rolling,” he explained patiently. “But now it’s been getting on for four years—can you believe?—since I interviewed you for the post. You brought Max, I recall. He was only, what, three?” “Two,” said Kate, faintly. “He was two. And he’s called Jack. ” “Yes, well, anyway,” he said, losing interest. “Like I said, four years down the line, belts tightening, cutbacks, same old, same old . . . Always wise to make a good impression, don’t you think?"[Alexander, Poppy *25 Days ’Til Christmas*. HarperCollins, 2019.]

25. " CONTENTS INTRODUCTION BY PETER NEAL CHAPTER ONE: VOODOO CHILD (NOVEMBER 1942–JULY 1962) CHAPTER TWO: HIGHWAY CHILE (JULY 1962–SEPTEMBER 1966) CHAPTER THREE: ARE YOU EXPERIENCED?(SEPTEMBER 1966–JUNE 1967) CHAPTER FOUR: BOLD AS LOVE (JUNE 1967–AUGUST 1967) CHAPTER FIVE: EZY RIDER (AUGUST 1967–JANUARY 1968) CHAPTER SIX: STONE FREE (FEBRUARY 1968–DECEMBER 1968) CHAPTER SEVEN: ALL ALONG THE WATCHTOWER (JANUARY 1969–JUNE 1969) CHAPTER EIGHT: EARTH BLUES (JULY 1969–JANUARY 1970) CHAPTER NINE: NINE TO THE UNIVERSE (FEBRUARY 1970–SEPTEMBER 1970) CREDITS AND PICTURE ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS SOURCES LINK INTRODUCTION TO ALL INTENTS AND PURPOSES THIS BOOK HAS BEEN WRITTEN BY JIMI HENDRIX."[Hendrix, Jimi *Starting At Zero: His Own Story*. Bloomsbury Publishing PLC, 2013.]