Created: 2025-11-16 12:49:32
Origin: searched
Selected: Leontes sees, as we have begun to see, that the instability of meaning and uncertainty of reference he is experiencing first-hand—what I have generally termed linguistic indeterminacy —is not simply a f function of expression but of interpretation as well. It arises, that is, not only out of an imperfection in the medium or the speaker’s use of it, but out of the radical subjectivity of the listener or interpreter. For this reason, it is doubly inescapable, a condition that prevents us from ever arriving at certain or complete understanding in human affairs.[Hartman, Geoffrey H., and Patricia A Parker *Shakespeare and the Question of Theory*. New edition. 1986.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Leontes sees, as we have begun to see, that the instability of meaning and uncertainty of reference he is experiencing first-hand—what I have generally termed linguistic indeterminacy —is not simply a f function of expression but of interpretation as well. It arises, that is, not only out of an imperfection in the medium or the speaker’s use of it, but out of the radical subjectivity of the listener or interpreter. For this reason, it is doubly inescapable, a condition that prevents us from ever arriving at certain or complete understanding in human affairs."[Hartman, Geoffrey H., and Patricia A Parker *Shakespeare and the Question of Theory*. New edition. 1986.]

02. "The sense of the passage remains difficult, but the unmistakable central claim is that god ultimately serves as the starting point of all of our 85 Following van der Eijk (2005), 250. For parallels to the language of inspiration see Rhetoric 1408b12–19, where Aristotle describes those in an elevated oratorical state as being divinely inspired; Politics 1340a11, 1342a7, 1341b34, 1342a4, 1340a11, 1340b4, where the effect of a certain inspirational kind of music on the soul is described this way."[Struck, Peter T. *Divination and Human Nature: A Cognitive History of Intuition in Classical Antiquity*. Princeton University Press, 2016.]

03. "Sauvé-Meyer has convincingly shown the many points in the sources at which the Stoic “chain” of fate is conceived of this way. 63 This is a system in which the horizontal interlinking of objects, each containing its forward-leaning seeds, will be the crucial way of envisioning sequences, and fate, which result from each immediately prior state. Each cause (that is, material body) fully embedded with all the other causes in the universe, will have its own internal seeds expressed through the active tenor of its pneuma."[Struck, Peter T. *Divination and Human Nature: A Cognitive History of Intuition in Classical Antiquity*. Princeton University Press, 2016.]

04. "Here we have a process which can be described in either way: either as a ‘materialization’ of God, giving Him a differential content which is His very condition of possibility, or as the deification of a particular set of determinations which are invested with the function of incarnating the Absolute. But both ways show the same deadlock: a pure expression of the Divine essence, which proved to be impossible through straight naming, is no more possible when we use, in an indirect way, a chain of equivalences."[Golding, Dr Sue, and Sue Golding *The Eight Technologies of Otherness*. Routledge, 1997.]

05. "iii. 253). Joannes Sturmius, De imitatione oratoria libri tres (Strasbourg, 1574), 3L3. This example, from Quintilian, op. cit. , VIII. iii. 67ff. , was repeated in Erasmus, op. cit. , II, method 5; Peacham, op. cit. , 139–40, and numerous other descriptions of the way to “open up those things which were included in a single word” (Erasmus), or to move from the “general” to the “particular. ” Francis Bacon, “Of the Coulers of good and evill, a fragment,” 21, published with his Essayes in 1597. See, for example, M. R. Ridley’s gloss in the Arden edition, 118."[Hartman, Geoffrey H., and Patricia A Parker *Shakespeare and the Question of Theory*. New edition. 1986.]

06. "Mathematicians in later times, starting with Simon Stevin, realized that the  cardinal problem in perspective is to construct the image of an arbitrary point –  the image of a polygon being determined by the images of its vertices. 37  Perhaps Alberti’s focus on commensurate points shows that he was inherently aware of  this, at least subconsciously. We may never know exactly what Alberti meant with his  definition of commensurate point, Italian or Latin, but it would not be surprising in the  least that Alberti possessed some keen insight and foresight in this case.  "[INPUT: Williams et al. - 2010 - The Mathematical Works of Leon Battista Alberti.pdf]

07. "It no more falls from out of the sky than does language itself erupt from only one mouth. Indeed, this imagination marks by re-marking the history, custom, traditions of the immense variety of identities to which it is a part and from which it is most distant. Consequently, in that sense, not only does it (re-)mark the relation of itself to itself in all the ways we have described up to now; its meaning is established in the same way, exactly in the same way, as any sodality or law is established—be it scientific, civil, physical, theoretical or make-believe: to wit in a fantastical relativity to the ‘that’ which lies around us."[Golding, Dr Sue, and Sue Golding *The Eight Technologies of Otherness*. Routledge, 1997.]

08. "I would take as one particularly strong example Bacon’s preferred portrait of Leiris (the portraits of 1976 and 1978 are reproduced in Interviews, 146–7). 6 I draw this term exscription from Nancy’s essay on Bataille. It captures powerfully the metaphor of writing that Heidegger employs to capture the manner in which a work of art draws out difference as a material relation of world and earth, but it also introduces in an important way the problematic of existence. See ‘L’Excrit’, in Une pensée finie (Galilée, Paris, 1990), pp."[Golding, Dr Sue, and Sue Golding *The Eight Technologies of Otherness*. Routledge, 1997.]

09. "5 (‘A straight line is a line which lies evenly with  the points on itself’ [Euclid 1956: vol. 1, 153]); Heath calls Euclid’s formulation  ‘hopelessly obscure’ and lists several other ancient Greek sources, some with variations on  the ‘shortest distance’ theme evident in D. 5. 27 Alberti offers two definitions in D. 6,  rectilinear and curvilinear, the definition of rectilinear being very close to part of Euclid  I, Def. 19. The definition of curvilinear depends on Alberti’s definition of curved line in  D. 7, which itself is problematic since it implicitly assumes that the only source for curves  can be pieces of circles. 28 In defining a circle in D. 8, Alberti complicates matters at first  but then ends up with language analogous to Euclid I, Def."[INPUT: Williams et al. - 2010 - The Mathematical Works of Leon Battista Alberti.pdf]

10. "In this sense, Telmah coexists with, is coterminous with Hamlet, in a way that must strike us, finally, as impossible. A thing, we are taught, cannot be both what it is and another thing. But that is precisely the principle challenged by Telmah. The notion that it cannot coexist with Hamlet marks the limit, I suggest, of the Eurocentric view of “sense,” of “order,” of “presence,” if you like, and of “point of view. ” That Eurocentricity lies behind, and validates, a limited notion of “interpretation” which will allow us to have Hamlet in various guises, and which will also, as an alternative, allow clever and sophisticated interpreters to have, say, Telmah."[Hartman, Geoffrey H., and Patricia A Parker *Shakespeare and the Question of Theory*. New edition. 1986.]

11. "But its fundamental thought is quite staggeringly simple. It is that: ‘“A” is the same letter as “A”’ (a remark which prompted the shorthand writer to comment, ‘Well, that’s true anyway’). This apparently trivial truism was to lead to the distinction between showing and saying which lies at the heart of the Tractatus. The thought – here in an embryonic form – is that what the Theory of Types says cannot be said, and must be shown by the symbolism (by our seeing that ‘A’ is the same letter as ‘A’, the same type of letter as ‘B’, and a different type from ‘x’, ‘y’ and ‘z’)."[Monk, Ray *Ludwig Wittgenstein: The Duty of Genius*. New Ed. Vintage, 1991.]

12. "Such an assumption is found above all in the philosophy of Plato, which takes for granted the existence of transcendental images or models of empirical things, the etS^ (forms, species), whose reflections (etSo>Aa) we see in the phenomenal world. This assumption not only presented no difficulty to earlier centuries but was on the contrary perfectly self-evident. The idea of an a priori meaning may also be found in the older mathematics, as in the mathematician Jacobi's paraphrase of Schiller's poem "Archimedes and His Pupil. ""[Shamdasani, Sonu, R. F. C. Hull, and C. G. Jung *Synchronicity : an acausal connecting principle*. Princeton University Press, 2010.]

13. "  Fig. 9. The Album of Villard de Honnecourt, detail of fol. 20r                                                             31 [Vagnetti 1972: 200]. 90  Commentary on Ex ludis rerum mathematicarum  Problem 6  Measuring the height of a tower, only the top of which is in view (Gal. 10 fols. 4r-4v)                                                              32 We first wish to note that while [Furlan 2006] discusses corruptions concerning Problems 6 and 17  in various manuscripts of the Ludi, it does not provide mathematical analyses for these two games in  specific detail, as compared for example with [Furlan 2001], which addresses Problem 17 rigorously  from both philological and mathematical bases."[INPUT: Williams et al. - 2010 - The Mathematical Works of Leon Battista Alberti.pdf]

14. "In this prior group of examples, divinatory language seems to Plato an appropriate way of describing our access to the Good. It will be Plato on Divination and Knowing • 59 oblique, not straightforward, more like the spotting of a resemblance, or a flash of insight, than a discursive calculus that moves from premises to conclusions. 19 These texts, which I have presented in a sequence of increasing weightiness of the objects known, might make tempting the conclusion that Plato uses divination to stand particularly for a way of knowing transcendent entities."[Struck, Peter T. *Divination and Human Nature: A Cognitive History of Intuition in Classical Antiquity*. Princeton University Press, 2016.]

15. "is never the face-to-face of two terms, but a hierarchy and an order of subordination. Deconstruction cannot limit itself or proceed immediately to a neutralization: it must . . . practice an overturning of the classical opposition and a general displacement of the system. . . . For example, writing, as a classical concept, carries within it predicates which have been subordinated, excluded, or held in reserve by forces and according to necessities to be analyzed."[(auth.), David Hawkes *The Faust Myth: Religion and the Rise of Representation*. Palgrave Macmillan US, 2007.]