Created: 2025-11-02 00:45:21
Origin: searched
Selected: Further on, through the case studies presented in chapter 7 in this book, some contributions in terms of methodological approaches to interactive architecture design are provided. Still, this is only small contributions and should be read as indicators of possibilities for the development of full-scale theories and methods capable of addressing this field of interactive architecture. While the concepts and cases presented in this book might work as theoretical and methodological indicators there are also several very practical and real indicators of a movement from rather small-scale development projects of new textures towards the application of such textures in full-scale architecture, as the following examples will illustrate.[Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies, Mikael Wiberg, 2010]

--- Context List ---
01. "Further on, through the case studies presented in chapter 7 in this book, some contributions in terms of methodological approaches to interactive architecture design are provided. Still, this is only small contributions and should be read as indicators of possibilities for the development of full-scale theories and methods capable of addressing this field of interactive architecture. While the concepts and cases presented in this book might work as theoretical and methodological indicators there are also several very practical and real indicators of a movement from rather small-scale development projects of new textures towards the application of such textures in full-scale architecture, as the following examples will illustrate."[Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies, Mikael Wiberg, 2010]

02. "If reviewing the work done in-between these two strands of research, i. e. work specifically conducted to address “interactive architecture” as such we find some good examples including Bullivant´s work on responsive environments (Bullivant, 2006), interactive architecture (Bullivant, 2005), and interactive design environments (Bullivant, 2007). Further on, Spiller´s work on reflexive architecture (Spiller, 2002) and Kolarevic & Malkawi´s work on performative architecture (2005) adds to our understanding of this phenomenon."[Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies, Mikael Wiberg, 2010]

03. "The method as proposed in this book is not a tool for addressing this gap. However, it juxtaposes perspectives from the fields of architecture and human-computer interaction. By borrowing a set concepts from the field of architecture to discuss and address interactive architecture, we can challenge a set of architecturally rooted concepts from an interaction design perspective in an attempt to refine concepts with roots in both the field of architecture, and in interaction design, i. e. an architectural register for interaction."[Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies, Mikael Wiberg, 2010]

04. "No one even looked directly at the pixel wall (see Figure 72). Unlike public installations of televisions of large high-definition screens, these displays helped visitors experienced the room. Rather attention on the other persons co-present in this space. From an interactive architecture point of view this was a huge success, since ultimate, any architecture should remain in the background of our attention, while still working as a scaffold for the social interaction in that particular place."[Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies, Mikael Wiberg, 2010]

05. "The authors’ explanation of this paradoxical result for the document design field is based on Kintsch’s comprehension model (1988, 1994, 1998). Any text can be understood on at least two levels: the text-base (propositional representation of literal text contents) and the situational model (a representation of what the text is about, enriched by the reader’s relevant knowledge) (Glenberg, Meyer, & Linden 1987)."[Information And Document Design: Varieties on Recent Research (Document Design Companion Series), Information Design Conference, Saul Carliner, Jan Piet Verkens, Cathy De Waele, 2006]

06. "However, in order to further develop this area in a systematic manner we need an agenda, and a mission statement for our work. A new AgendA Any agenda needs a method and an approach for reaching the goals and mission statements formulated in the agenda. If the mission statement here is to further develop this area of interactive architecture, then the method proposed in this book goes via the development of an architectural register for interaction. As formulated in this book we have, on the one hand, the traditional field of architecture which provides us with a rich register of concepts to describe and analyze our built environment."[Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies, Mikael Wiberg, 2010]

07. "In our approach to create one such architectural register for interaction, and to start our work on the construction of a method and approach for generating one such semantics we set out to interlink architecture with interaction design through a cycle that start out in the borrowing of a set concepts from the field of architecture to discuss and address interactive architecture (see arrow 1 in Figure 82)."[Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies, Mikael Wiberg, 2010]

08. "Our findings of the perceived contributions are mostly consistent with those discussed in the literature. Some deviations, however, were found as follows. We identified a new category, reflection, which is not mentioned in the literature directly as a possible benefit from architecture review. The reflection guides architects to improve the architecture as a preparation for the review, leading them to scrutinize their architecture document and thinking about things they may neglect otherwise."[Advanced Information Systems Engineering Workshops: CAiSE 2011 International Workshops, London, UK, June 20-24, 2011. Proceedings, Birger Andersson, Irina Rychkova, Gianluigi Viscusi (auth.), Camille Salinesi, Oscar Pastor (eds.), 2011]

09. "So, contrary to this, I suggest an interact architecture agenda that is open for technological explorations while at the same time making use of classical concepts from architecture in new innovative texturation processes of information technologies in physical spaces. fRoM ARchiTecTuRes To enviRonMenTs Not only do we need to relate these new textures available to the concept of buildings, and not only can we rely on architectural thinking when introducing digital elements and technologies in physical spaces."[Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies, Mikael Wiberg, 2010]

10. "In this sense, Derrida is right to say that “from its ancient beginnings, the most basic concept of architecture has been constructed. ”10 However, why would one not add (and why did Derrida not add) that this concept had beenarchitectured, as is suggested by the lovely formula that insists that there is an “architecture of architecture?” It is not only because the verbarchitecturer—which entered the French language soon after the distinction was made between architects and engineers—has to be handled with caution, signifying (if I am to believe thePetit Robert dictionary) “construire avec rigueur. ” Rather, the reason should be sought on a deeper level, somewhat approaching the heading “architectural culture”: architecture as a fact of culture, culture as inhabited by architecture as much as it inhabits architecture, culture informed by architecture as much as it informs architecture."[Noah’s Ark: Essays on Architecture, Hubert Damisch; Anthony Vidler (ed.), 2016]