Created: 2025-12-19 16:20:02
Origin: searched
Selected: The visualization of this new transcendental field of pure effects in architecture involves both the critique of architecture and the renunciation of certain formal procedures that condition architecture for the subject. This latter conditioning is typical of the manner in which architecture is complicit in forming representational orders that further control and channel the purely immanent field of its productive agency.[Brott, Simone *Architecture for a Free Subjectivity: Deleuze and Guattari at the Horizon of the Real*. Ashgate Publishing, 2011.]

--- Context List ---
01. "On the other side, some authors contemplate the connection between  algorithms and architectural design in terms of similarity, rather than  causality. This promotes the use of metaphors of computational processes to describe contemporary reconfigurations of structural, organizational and spatial experiences. These descriptions, informed by  culture studies and media theory, take up a topic from the professional  domain of architecture—such as urban design, or building form—and  map its contemporary practice to computational processes. Keller  Easterling’s active form (a way to address algorithms that orchestrate  urban design)14 and Benjamin Bratton’s layer in the ‘Stack’ (discussing  the way global and pervasive computation inhabits and (re)organizes  space)15 are vivid examples of this approach. Spatial experience is thus  a consequence of the operation of these concepts, a passive, given material upon which they act, or is an abstraction that organizes its activity. "[INPUT: Doyle_Savic_Buehlmann__Ghosts_of_Transparency.pdf]

02. "The work engages with an unusually extensive body of knowledge with the aim of providing additional angles to its principal research  domain: computational models in architecture. This body of knowledge  involves early analytic philosophy, computability and probability theory,  formal logic, quantum physics, abstract algebra, computer-aided design,  computer graphics, glossematics, machine learning and architecture.  However, the reason for such a comprehensive approach and perhaps  radical gesture is not to claim any expertise nor mastery over the aforementioned fields of knowledge. To the contrary, it is a matter of methodology, aiming to operate in a more architectural manner, without losing  the necessary rigour and consistency required of an academic work. "[INPUT: Doyle_Savic_Buehlmann__Ghosts_of_Transparency.pdf]

03. "This fascination with structure points towards an assumption that  there is an underlying logic or order, one that can give form to a building  or arrange nodes of a network. Architecture as a formal structure lends  itself to such interpretation in terms of grammar and style. The connection between computation and architecture, in this theoretical tradition  is made in terms of structure. The fascination with non-standard, perceived irregularity appears as the key indicator of objects and projects of  interest."[INPUT: Doyle_Savic_Buehlmann__Ghosts_of_Transparency.pdf]

04. "The following pages attempt to demonstrate,  > first, that any "new" architecture implies the idea of comiso 181 bination, that all form is the result of a combination. It then  proceeds to indicate that the notion of combination can be  - articulated into different categories. It should be emphasized  that architecture is not seen here as the result of composition, a synthesis of formal concerns and functional constraints, but rather as part of a complex process of  transformational relations. Between pure formalism, which  reduces architecture to a series of forms (which at the limit  could be "formless" and meaningless), and classical realism,  w ich attempts to give all forms an expressive value, aspects  of structural analysis (which concerns us here) attempt to  distinguish the nature of such transformational relations. "[INPUT: Tschumi - 1996 - Architecture and disjunction.pdf]

05. "The visualization of this new transcendental field of pure effects in architecture involves both the critique of architecture and the renunciation of certain formal procedures that condition architecture for the subject. This latter conditioning is typical of the manner in which architecture is complicit in forming representational orders that further control and channel the purely immanent field of its productive agency."[Brott, Simone *Architecture for a Free Subjectivity: Deleuze and Guattari at the Horizon of the Real*. Ashgate Publishing, 2011.]

06. "Fundamental to this distanciation is architecture’s internalization of technique through recollection of the tectonic. What this entails is that a discussion of ‘image’, as one consequence of the introduction of mediatic technologies into architectural discipline, although it has proliferated diverse and innovative approaches to design, nevertheless dismisses the culture of building, thus putting limitations on the scope of criticism. To speak of the tectonic relationship between column and wall, for example, does not mean to dismiss the perceptual realm offered by the mediatic technologies."[Hartoonian, Gevork *Walter Benjamin and architecture*. London, New York: Routledge, 2010.]

07. "Such a project is far removed from formalism  in that it stresses the historical motivation of the sign, em208 209 phasizing its contingency, its cultural fragility, rather than  a-historical essence. It is one that, in current times, can only  confront the radical rift between signifier and signified or, in  architectural terms, space and action, form and function.  That today we are witnessing a striking dislocation of these  terms calls attention not only to the disappearance of functionalist theories but perhaps also to the normative function  of architecture itself. "[INPUT: Tschumi - 1996 - Architecture and disjunction.pdf]

08. "Because Harries’ notion of natural symbols offers a hermeneutical means to locate broad lived qualities of architectural meaning expressed dialectically, one is provided one heuristic structure for locating the experience of buildings-in-themselves—the unique shadings of architectural presence and ambience evoked by particular combinations of specific natural symbols. Harries’ language provides one interpretive possibility for bypassing experiential accounts as they are grounded in the pre-reflective, unthematized attention of user lifeworlds and natural attitudes that Jones emphasizes in his accounts of ritual-architectural events. Harries offers an interpretation of architecture whereby the text—architecture-as-experienced-and-understood-viaexpression-of-particular-natural-symbols—can more precisely and completely reveal itself. In relation to Wachterhauser’s four guidelines for trustworthy interpretation, one can make the following claims for Harries’ language of natural symbols: 1."[(eds.), Bruce B. Janz *Place, Space and Hermeneutics*. Springer International Publishing, 2017.]

09. "Such a model of architecture based on wholly free material effects, while not proposing any reductive formalism, nor specific architectural outcome (utopian or otherwise), nonetheless raises mostly unanswerable questions about architectural ends. These ends, in fact, announce the end of all styles, toward the release of the purely formative ‘will to form’ secreted in architecture as a form of subjective Architecture for a Free Subjectivity 52 agencement for architecture, and as enemy and nemesis for all manufactured chains of structural and rational aims applied to architecture."[Brott, Simone *Architecture for a Free Subjectivity: Deleuze and Guattari at the Horizon of the Real*. Ashgate Publishing, 2011.]

10. "This movement from 'text' to 'context' has another dimension, too. One of the contradictions of modernist architectural theory is the disparity between its ambitions for an architecture which, in its spare functionality, can be seen as impersonal, and a desire to seize the opportunities for heroic individual vision and expression — architecture as the 'pure creation of the mind', as Le Corbusier put it. 17 In arguing for an architecture which is more responsive to its contexts, postmodernist architects like Robert Venturi have turned away from such heroic individualism."[Connor, Steven *Postmodernist Culture: An Introduction to Theories of the Contemporary*. 2nd ed. Wiley-Blackwell, 1997.]

11. "ground are not structural, they are ornament. Yes, fiction and  narrative fascinated many architects, perhaps because, our  enemies might say, we knew more about books than about  buildings. I do not have the time to dwell upon an interesting difference between the two interpretations of the  role of fiction in architecture: one, the so-called historicist  postmodernist allegiance, the other, the so-called deconstructivist neomodernist allegiance (not my labels). Although both stemmed from early interests in linguistics and  semiology, the first group saw fiction and narrative as part  of the realm of metaphors, of a new architecture parlante, of  form, while the second group saw fiction and scenarios as  analogues for programs and function. "[INPUT: Tschumi - 1996 - Architecture and disjunction.pdf]

12. "Indeed, Lynn’s early work presents one of the few philosophically coherent experiments in architecture’s project surrounding Deleuze; but it is precisely the robustness of such an architectural schema that draws attention to its unannounced productions of subjectivity. Folding in Architecture63 reaches for an impersonal subjectivity of architecture, which it does in an interesting way; but it re-Oedipalizes the subject in the built form as ego—and what emerges as a techno-organism, on the one hand, and its weak double, a passive building subject, on the other, are “compliant” with the technological field of production which subsumes them."[Brott, Simone *Architecture for a Free Subjectivity: Deleuze and Guattari at the Horizon of the Real*. Ashgate Publishing, 2011.]

13. "Today, architecture is being reduced to the practice of “building images. ”60 In a society saturated by images, the aesthetic practice of architecture has increasingly become “photogenic. ” Against this, it should rather become “photographic,” in the sense 87 Nadir Lahiji I elaborated above. From the misguided idea of architecture as “Sign” in its different variations in the 1970s, the discourse of building has merely moved towards another version as “image-making,” or “hyperbuilding,” conceived as a form of “media. ” The resulting anaestheticization is the consequence of a failure to “reimagine the aesthetic” of building within the paradigm of the new technology."[Hartoonian, Gevork *Walter Benjamin and architecture*. London, New York: Routledge, 2010.]

14. "Architectural representation has now moved away from intricate line drawings printed on paper, or three-dimensional digital (or physical) models, to consist of complex configurations within one’s own cyto-architecture. 4 Note 1. Oliver Sacks, An Anthropologist On Mars, Picador (London), 1995, p xv. Text © 2009 John Wiley & Sons Ltd. Images © Dan Farmer 75 The synaptic framework."[Clear, Nic *Architectures of the Near Future (Architectural Design September   October 2009, Vol. 79, No. 5)*. Wiley, 2009.]

15. "One could reiterate Meyer’s reflections on the relationship between the roof and the enclosure and argue for the importance of construction for the present architecture. This discussion also entails the specificity of the conversion of matter into form; although mediatic techniques have opened a different perceptual field, architectural form is still realized through techniques that can transform historical style into constructive style. Here I would like to draw two conclusions from my excursion into Benjamin’s notes on construction."[Hartoonian, Gevork *Walter Benjamin and architecture*. London, New York: Routledge, 2010.]