Created: 2025-12-27 02:04:29
Origin: suggested
Selected: The elevated moving stairs and exciting lifts create a new art form (Figures 3. 18a and 3. 18b). The success rests upon the innate curiosity of people to ascend and move to brighter elements in the interior. Vertigo is combated by tinted glass balustrades, ledges and high-level handrailing. 3. 2 Accommodation stairs Accommodation stairs are de®ned as additional or amenity stairs in excess of means of escape provisions.[Blanc, Sylvia, and Alan Blanc *Stairs, Second Edition*. Architectural Press, 2001.]

--- Context List ---
01. "The exception to this is the ‘feature stair’, where the stair, and the space around it, are designed to be seen. Feature stairs provide more opportunities for creative architecture and engineering, sometimes becoming more like artwork that you can walk up. Nevertheless, the basic geometrical constraints of local building regulations must be adhered to."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

02. "It is therefore necessary to distinguish  between stairs that are acting merely as  mediators, and stairs that have become  autonomous architectural creations. This development of autonomous staircase  architecture is supported by one essential  element in the garden, which does not  have a rising, but a falling tendency: the  water. Stairs and cascades became complementary design factors in garden art. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

03. "It is only in modern times and the  1 0 th century that the opening created  by the enclosing stairs, has become  a tool for design. Its outline follows  contemporary and fashionable forms  °f ornamentation. blot only the stairs with its sequence  °f steps, and its balustrades, but also  the 'eye' of the stair received a new  Modern take. Master builders of winding stairs built before the baroque  were not yet ready to address the 'eye'  of the stairs in design terms. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

04. "The challenge of writing a book on staircases is slightly different from writing one on windows. Stairs can be found inside or outside. We have chosen to limit the current book to staircases inside buildings and not those in gardens or landscapes, although similar issues will pertain. A window is a recognisable and distinct element. A staircase is often part of the building structure, and even if it is not helping to support the building, structure plays an important role in its design."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

05. "60. NOTES. The design is novel yet very attractive, and has become a general favorite among all lovers of true art in architecture. The stairway is of neat design, and is an attractive feature of front hall. Door under stairs leads from the hall into kitchen. This building itself looks much better than is shown in the engravings. This plan can be enlarged, reduced or changed to front in any desired direction."[Barber, George F., and Michael A. Tomlan *Victorian Cottage Architecture: An American Catalog of Designs, 1891*. Dover Publications, 2012.]

06. "Applications for the copyright holder's written permission to reproduce any part of this publication should be addressed to the publishers British Library Cataloguing in Publication Data Blanc, Sylvia Stairs. ± 2nd ed. 1. Staircases 2. Stairs I. Title II. Blanc, Alan 721. 8 0 32 Library of Congress Cataloguing in Publication Data A catalogue record for this book is available from the Library of Congress ISBN 0 7506 4846 5 Printed and bound in Great Britain Contents Foreword vii 1 Introduction 1 2 Civic and public stairs 3 Commercial stairs 4 Domestic stairs 5 External stairs 5 29 47 70 6 Detailed construction: timber 92 7 Detailed construction: iron, steel and other metals 114 8 Concrete stairs 136 9 Stonework and composite construction 151 10 Design codes and procedures 11 Elevators and mechanical circulation 178 12 International case studies 13 Case studies in the UK Epilogue Index 230 231 200 213 158 This Page Intentionally Left Blank Foreword It is cause for wonderment that the seemingly mundane device de®ned as `a means of passing from one level to another by increments, more or less comforable ± the vertical measures known as risers and the horizontal goings as treads' has, through history, generated such richly charged cultural and technical invention."[Blanc, Sylvia, and Alan Blanc *Stairs, Second Edition*. Architectural Press, 2001.]

07. "The elevated moving stairs and exciting lifts create a new art form (Figures 3. 18a and 3. 18b). The success rests upon the innate curiosity of people to ascend and move to brighter elements in the interior. Vertigo is combated by tinted glass balustrades, ledges and high-level handrailing. 3. 2 Accommodation stairs Accommodation stairs are de®ned as additional or amenity stairs in excess of means of escape provisions."[Blanc, Sylvia, and Alan Blanc *Stairs, Second Edition*. Architectural Press, 2001.]

08. "Here, recessed riser lights provide soft but effective illumination. The two-tone steps are not only pretty, but the variations in color also aids visual depth perception, increasing safety on the stairs. It’s a thoughtful design that satisfies both practical and aesthetic concerns. Often, the simpler the staircase design, the better. This basic staircase allows the beauty of the hardwood to dominate."[Peterson, Chris *Deck ideas you can use: creative deck designs for every home & yard*. Minneapolis, Minn: Creative Publishing international, 2011.]

09. "This book focuses on the movement of building occupants on a critical egress component – the stair. The objective is to document the findings of previous literature regarding movement speeds down stairs. This will be accomplished by examining the assumptions, methods, and results of previous studies. The movement on stairs is critical for determining the amount of time required to safely evacuate the building."[Hoskins, Bryan L., and James A. Milke (auth.) *Study of Movement Speeds Down Stairs*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2013.]

10. "1985; Shields et al. 2009) times were given on a per floor basis. However most of the authors instead calculated speed based on a measured distance within the stairs. When descending stairs in a high-rise building, travel distance in stairs needs to include both travel on landings and treads. The differences in the studies regarding travel distance stemmed from which components were included and, if included, how the travel distance was calculated."[Hoskins, Bryan L., and James A. Milke (auth.) *Study of Movement Speeds Down Stairs*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2013.]

11. "Stairs Semicircular stairs nestled between walls of foundation skirting is an excellent feature for distinguishing a fairly undistinguished deck. This small, gray dining deck also features natural wood railings with glass inserts, but it’s the stairs that set a truly sophisticated tone. This is why choosing stair style is always a part of a good deck design—they should never be an afterthought Stair configuration goes far in determining how the deck is perceived."[Peterson, Chris *Deck ideas you can use: creative deck designs for every home & yard*. Minneapolis, Minn: Creative Publishing international, 2011.]

12. "Stairs in Pathfinder Stairs are represented in Pathfinder through straight-run of steps. The model requires the input data about riser, tread and width (see Fig. 4. 21). In Pathfinder, the specified tread rise and run are the factors considered in the calculation, i. e. , the simulation is not dependent on the geometric slope of the stairs. Stairways denote areas where the maximum occupant speed is controlled by an alternate specific calculation."[Ronchi, Enrico, and Daniel Nilsson (auth.) *Assessment of Total Evacuation Systems for Tall Buildings*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2014.]

13. "Other dimensions apply to curved stairs 16 . Other factors relevant to stair safety include lighting, slip resistance, single steps (most codes prohibit flights of fewer than three steps), handrails, and inability to detect the edge of the tread due to lack of contrast. REVIEW OF INTERNATIONAL CODE REQUIREMENTS FOR EGRESS STAIRS The building regulations summarized below are from countries that are widely disbursed and culturally different, and should be representative of any range of methods used to treat egress."[Bukowski, Richard W. *Emergency Egress From Buildings*. National Institute of Standards and Technology, 2009.]

14. "It needs to be determined if 56 in stairs need double doors to prevent congestion, as this can be a significant cost issue in design. Stair Geometry Current requirements in the building codes reviewed are consistent with the research recommendations. Refuge Floors Horizontal transfer corridors designed as means of egress components shall be provided every 25 floors (generally on mechanical floors) to link all egress stairs and to provide the ability to safely move between stairs."[Bukowski, Richard W. *Emergency Egress From Buildings*. National Institute of Standards and Technology, 2009.]

15. "The likelihood of the agents to wait in a queue is determined by their patience coefficient. The model permits to represent the interactions between horizontal and vertical components. Stairs in STEPS There are two different methods to simulate stairs in STEPS. A possible method is the use of the stair menu (see Fig. 4. 24). This menu permits to define the geometric characteristics of the stairs (e. g. , width, height, handrails, walking side, etc."[Ronchi, Enrico, and Daniel Nilsson (auth.) *Assessment of Total Evacuation Systems for Tall Buildings*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2014.]

16. "STAIR PAGE 171 notation sheets (erfassungsbögen) One astounding phenomenon throughout art and architectural history is  that the stairs often remain unmentioned in literature. It seems that, while taking  ¡nventory of a historic building, the stairs generally remained unnoticed. ■^e technical terms are hardly known. Out of necessity they become replaced by each writer's own creations, which  consequently are as diverse as its authors. None of the relevant reference  books on the art of stair construction seem to have been read or studied. The fact that stair construction is an art, is indeed noted once in a while, but  ibe fact that this art has at its very foundation a solid craft, is being ignored. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

17. "PAGE 228 STAIR 14. 1996 Spiritual stairs between earth and heaven STAIR PAGE 229 STAIR PAGE 230 15. 1999  Gothic and Renaissance stairs The premise for this research was the idea  that a new feel for life intrinsically had to  produce new products, that alongside the  emergence of a new architecture, new  stairs would arise. The stairs form part of valuable haptic  experiences. Among all the building  components, they reflect most accurately  the habits of its users. An examination of  their original texture and their consequent  changes may allow for conclusions to be  drawn, which can answer the question  raised above regarding the time when  lifestyles changed. In order to obtain the  most convincing results possible, this  general question is broken down into  14 sub-items: "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

18. "I^e ornamentation of a building  consists not only of well-proportioned  facades and embellished entrances, L t it also included the entrance stairs. ina 1788 publication named "Studies  |n the character of buildings;  regarding the relationship between  architecture and the fine arts, and on  |f,e effects which should be produced  Ey the same," an anonymous writer  emphasizes, "just how much a stair,  composed of several steps, can refine  a building exterior. " "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

19. "Garden stairs are  design elements in a  free space, a garden  or a park. They are  independent components, even if their  position is defined by  the visual relation to  a construction in the  distance. PAGE 176 STAIR - 10. 1992 SCALALOGY - COLLECTED WRITINGS (VOL. 3) Wendeltreppe spiral staircase STAIR PAGE 177 Producing a base sketch  may not be necessary in  most cases, if one uses  the lines LOCATION  and ENCLOSURE  (GEHÄUSE) in the right  way. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

20. "Until the nineteenth century the emphasis is on spiral stairs, because these illustrate the more dramatic developments, although without excluding mention of straight flights. Earliest Stone Stairs From very early times mankind has hewn blocks of stone to form stairs, mostly within religious sites. The humble and even higher status house would have made do with wooden ladders where they were needed to access areas such as lofts and sleeping platforms."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

21. "Cantilevered stairs have been described in the previous chapters. They provide an excellent example of the variety of ways that engineers become involved, whether the stairs are traditional in form and materials, or are modern feature stairs built in new materials. The way these stairs ‘work’ structurally has been the subject of much debate between engineers for many years."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

22. "7. 9 Structural action of a stair compared to a ladder and beam. The influence that engineering has on the appearance of stairs therefore derives from the properties of the materials and the manner in which structural joints are made in different materials. An in-situ reinforced concrete stair is completely jointless, whereas a timber stair will have many different components joined together."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

23. "How is the staircase constructed?Is the stair supported independently of the building fabric?This may include construction on sleeper walls. Or is it an integral part of the structure, e. g. the spiral stair within a stair turret or a cantilevered flight apparently suspended within the staircase hall of a country house."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

24. "Museums The Burgoisie mid 20th PAGE 108 STAIR -  2. 1966 THE HISTORY OF GERMAN STAIRCASES geradläufige treppen straight stairs In the Middle Ages, straight-run  stairs were often hidden within thick  masonry. Yet in parallel, a staircase  along a passagew ay (G a n g tr e p p e )  developed, w hose walls did not have  any structural function anymore, merely  an enclosing one. The stair thus  became more utilitarian in plan. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

25. "Stair Wells and Surrounding Walls Stair flights cannot exist in isolation, and they are always associated with other elements of construction that may require some engineering input. Where the stair passes through a floor the opening needs to be properly formed with a clear structural relationship between the floor and the walls enclosing the stair."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]