Created: 2025-12-26 17:21:41
Origin: suggested
Selected: The signiﬁcance of a wall’s threshold qualities notwithstanding, a wall is empirically also a screen, or cover; a function of particular importance to medieval and premodern urban Arab-Muslim culture, with its traditional enclaustration and veiling of women.[O'Meara, Simon *Space and Muslim Urban Life: At the Limits of the Labyrinth of Fez (Culture and Civilization in the Middle East)*. 2007.]

--- Context List ---
01. "PAGE 20 WOVEN WALL The ur-wall is not, according to  19th century architectural theorist  Gottfried Semper, a mud or stone  line of enormous and reassuring  heft, but an artful, woven partition.  Hanging loosely, perhaps flapping,  the woven screen generates-   and, crucially, symbolizes -   the division and organization of  activities within the primitive dwelling. The woven "wall" is an enabler  of civilization; the thick structural  wall merely a defender of it. "[INPUT: wall.pdf]

02. "The signiﬁcance of a wall’s threshold qualities notwithstanding, a wall is empirically also a screen, or cover; a function of particular importance to medieval and premodern urban Arab-Muslim culture, with its traditional enclaustration and veiling of women."[O'Meara, Simon *Space and Muslim Urban Life: At the Limits of the Labyrinth of Fez (Culture and Civilization in the Middle East)*. 2007.]

03. "wall 2001 As thin as possible: fantasy of the  two-dimensional wall, sketched in 3D by  SANAA for the Kunstlinie Almere,  Netherlands. PAGE 3 WALL The meaning of the wall is just as diverse as the uses of vertical surface can be, but there are at least two essential  functions: providing structure and dividing space. The two can be separated, and thus the category of 'wall' divides into  two: the bearing wall, separating roof from ground; and the partition wall, organizing movement within the resulting  container. The former, it would seem, is as stable as the human need for shelter; the latter as changeable as our forms  of sociability. "[INPUT: wall.pdf]

04. "screen wall A movable or fixed device, especially a framed construction designed to divide, conceal, or protect, but not to support. serpentine wall A wall with a plan in the shape of a wavy line with alternating arcs of circles. shear wall A wall that resists shear forces in its own plane due to wind or earthquake forces. spandrel wall A wall built on the extrados of an arch, filling the spandrels."[Ernest., Burden *Illustrated Dictionary of Architecture*. 2017.]

05. "Functional Analysis of the ‘Wavy’ Enclosure Wall."[Wright, G.R.H. *Ancient Building Technology, Volume 3: Construction (2 vols.)*. Brill, 2009.]

06. "As such, these balconies acknowledge the purposes fulﬁlled by apertures in traditional (thick) wall construction but in this case with thin, lightweight, and industrialized elements. Ironically, this incorporates aspects of the vertical window into its opposite; inhabitable space has been reinterpreted through an assembly of lightweight elements. This “wall” can be seen as inﬁll, window wall, and uniform plane."[Leatherbarrow, David, and Mohsen Mostafavi *Surface Architecture*. 2002.]

07. "In the context of this chapter, shaping a wall in plan presents opportunities for architectural enrichment, as illustrated at the Mönchengladbach Museum. Highly regarded for the qualities of its interior spaces and urban setting, an exterior gallery wall undulates (Fig. 4. 10). The sinuous wall imbues one gallery interior with special character and outside, the wall’s serpentine geometry appears as a natural extension of the curvilinear paths and brick walls that lead up the hillside to the museum."[Charleson, Andrew *Structure As Architecture: A Source Book For Architects And Structural Engineers*. Architectural Press, 2005.]

08. "1994:150, fig. 3). In Building 700 at Tall Jawa, a stone pier wall supports one end of a lintel over a doorway between Rooms 712 and R713 (see below). This same construction technique was used at Busayra, where a “pier” wall (90) bonds with the outer wall, and serves as a cross wall between two rooms (Bienkowki 2001: fig. 3; 2002: fig. 4. 5). While this technique is also used in casemate wall systems, what is of interest here is its use in domestic structures."[Daviau, P. M. Michele, Paul-Eugene Dion, Ronald G. V. Hancock, David Hemsworth, Margaret A. Judd, Ryan Defonzo, and Douglas W. Schnurrenberger *Excavations at Tall Jawa, Jordan, Volume 1: The Iron Age Town*. Brill Academic Publishers, 2003.]

09. "Practically, however, the two modes of action are always in some sort united. Again, the weight to be borne may either act generally on the whole wall surface, or with excessive energy on particular points: when it acts on the whole wall surface, the whole wall is generally supported; and the arrangement becomes a continuous rampart, as a dyke, or bank of reservoir."[Ruskin, John *The Stones of Venice: The foundations*. Smith, Elder, and co., 2013.]

10. "Surface textures relieve wall surfaces. Formwork tie holes and regularly spaced positive joints, as opposed to more conventional negative formwork joints, modulate large wall areas. Regular vertical niches spaced along the condolence hall longitudinal walls play a similar role (Fig. 2. 16). Minimalist structural detailing denies any expression of structural actions."[Charleson, Andrew *Structure As Architecture: A Source Book For Architects And Structural Engineers*. Architectural Press, 2005.]

11. "Earthworks (incorporating stiffening and surfacing of various other materials) may serve as (I) an abutment to the foot of a city wall, (2) a revetment to the natural (sloping) foundations below the city wall and as an extension to this latter office (3) they may provide new sloping foundations by way of increasing the building platform. And as opposed to these auxilliary functions earthworks may (4) constitute in themselves the enceinte wall."[Wright, G.R.H. *Ancient Building in South Syria and Palestine*. Leiden: Brill, 1985.]

12. "This is so, not because a veiled woman bears a resemblance to the minimally adorned, “silenced” medina wall, a resemblance often noted by nineteenth-century European travelers88 and rendered explicit in the words of Ibn Taymiyya (d. 1328): “[Women must be] veiled with clothing and houses. ”89 Rather, the SijAb is like a wall, because in the Qur’an and urban Arab-Muslim culture of the period, its functions are those of a wall, namely, screen and threshold."[O'Meara, Simon *Space and Muslim Urban Life: At the Limits of the Labyrinth of Fez (Culture and Civilization in the Middle East)*. 2007.]

13. "    Figure 7. 8. Building 300, Room 305, Mortar E53:54, and bench with loom weights in situ. wall in its own right. On the west side of Doorway G, in Wall 3035, Pillar E53:9 stands 0. 54 m in height and is connected to west Wall 3031 + 3032 by another mudbrick connecting wall/bench (E53:22) that is only 0. 28–0. 43 m in height. The function of these low wall units was probably to give support to the stacked boulders and allow light and air to circulate between Rooms 305 and 315."[Daviau, P. M. Michele, Paul-Eugene Dion, Ronald G. V. Hancock, David Hemsworth, Margaret A. Judd, Ryan Defonzo, and Douglas W. Schnurrenberger *Excavations at Tall Jawa, Jordan, Volume 1: The Iron Age Town*. Brill Academic Publishers, 2003.]

14. "In place of this a bonding transverse “wall” (itself of two faces and a core) can be built across the structure—obviously such a device is more proper to “engineering” structures, where special strength and stability is required (e. g. dams). It should be noticed also that this transverse bonding not only ties the wall together, but it also compartmentalises the core and thus reduces its outward pressure on the wall face (ABADY IV 1987 pp."[Wright, G.R.H. *Ancient Building Technology, Volume 3: Construction (2 vols.)*. Brill, 2009.]

15. "This occurs when a window opening creates a divide within the wall section, similar to a control joint in a floor slab. As the wall shrinks, the wall section on either side of the opening behaves as unit. As the wall sections attempt to pull away from the opening, stress builds up along the precast lintel that is bridging the two wall sections. This condition results in horizontal friction or shearing of the mortar between the wall and the precast lintel."[de Leon, Diaz, and Alicia E *Forensic Engineering 2015 : performance of the built environment : proceedings of the Seventh Congress on Forensic Engineering, November 15-18, 2015, Miami, Florida*. American Society of Civil Engineers, 2015.]

16. "Clearly it facilitates simultaneous construction by a number of separate gangs-of considerable significance in urgent work. Also a long unstayed wall is inherently unstable and modern building regulations always limit the ac- fighting plaiform crenellation machicouli wall-walk EB curtains unbroken trace DESIGN numerous gates later curtains broken trace idented trace salients & recesses ceptable length in terms of the breadth (they certainly would not restrict the length of a 8m broad brick wall!)."[Wright, G.R.H. *Ancient Building in South Syria and Palestine*. Leiden: Brill, 1985.]

17. "The upper had loogholes, but there weriPno merlons on the walls* wall-walk (boevoy ran behind^ parapet supplied with loopholes. The up^e^partioof the wall ~* uiltsslightly projecting beyond the plafte o£ljie wall, so that there was a between the uppej and lower partsaof the wall. The clearance served the "e purpose as hoarding or machicolations in European castles: t% command "space at the foot of the wall."[Nossov, Konstantin, and Peter Dennis *Medieval Russian Fortresses AD 862-1480*. Osprey Publishing, 2007.]

18. "interior wall Any wall within a building; entirely surrounded by exterior walls. load-bearing wall A wall capable of supporting an imposed load in addition to its own weight. masonry wall A load-bearing or non-load-bearing wall consisting of hollow masonry units. non-load-bearing wall A wall subject only to its own weigh and wind pressure. partition An interior wall dividing a room or part of a building into separate areas; may be either non-load-bearing or load-bearing."[Ernest., Burden *Illustrated Dictionary of Architecture*. 2017.]

19. "To the interior, smooth wall inside-surfaces create pure interior space, while to the city, smooth wall outside-surfaces definite clear open spaces. So the designer abandoned all decoration on both sides of wall, try to create the atmosphere of pure spaces, in order to highlight the art works at the same time."[Yu, Jasmine *Museum Display Design*. Design Media Publishing Limited, 2012.]

20. "The wall fragment C1 has to be considered a masonry structure with an inner core embedded between facings; the outer one with a regular stretcher-header system that ensured efficient bonding with the wall core. b. Stonecutting technique which requires highly skilled stonemasons. As mentioned above, the stonecutting on the outer wall facing of the wall fragment C1 is exceptionally fine work of such precision that it apparently required qualified specialists with processing routines."[Le Brun, Nicolas *Building knowledge, construction history. 2 vols. Proceedings of the 6th International Congress on Construction History (6ICCH 2018), July 9-13, 2018, Brussels, Belgium*. London: CRC Press (U.K.), 2018.]

21. "Cavity walls. This type of construction is now very common and is generally preferred to solid wall construction for many types of buildings, especially houses. A cavity wall is usually an external wall. It consists of two separate walls of brickwall, having a cavity between, and connected together by metal ties. 62 Notes: bar стержень cavity wall bond retaining wall подпорная стенка сцепление longitudinal продольный пустотелая (полая) стена shear stress срезывающее напряжение tensile растягивающий tie wire проволока weave - wove – woven плеcти 63 элемент, работающий на растяжение expanded metal просечно-вытяжной металлический лист 64 C. 3."[Г.И., Железнякова *Civil Engineering Часть 1*. 2017.]

22. "This necessitated the 244 crowding behind a common fortification wall, and within the wall the formation of clan or ethnic quarters to enhance mutual support. Chapter 6 discussed the resulting urban setting in detail. An aerial view of a traditional Arab town clearly shows a tight social fabric, One wonders, how every house, every family could satisfy its daily needs."[Ragette, Friedrich *Traditional Domestic Architecture Of The Arab Region*. Hardcover. Axel Menges, 2003.]

23. "The larger niche is set back only 0. 14 m. from the face of the wall at the north, 0. 075 m. at the south. On the south side the setbackof the niche wall from the main wall is graduallyreducedfrom the floorlevel upwards until, at 3. 50 m. , it merges into the main wall surface. In the main wall surface,0. 35 m. north of the larger niche and approximately 1. 31 m. above the floor, a hole in the wall runs in diagonally for approximately 0. 70 m. Its use is uncertain;it may be a scaffoldinghole."[Biers, Jane C. *The Great Bath on the Lechaion Road (Corinth vol.17)*. Volume XVII. 1985.]

24. "Wall flashings and a means of draining moisture from the wall are also required. The wall drainage system, which is left to the discretion of the wall designer, may involve a prefabricated drainage mesh, or vertical ridges or furring that create pathways outboard of the WRB, or simply natural separations between WRB layers to enable water to travel to the wall flashings."[de Leon, Diaz, and Alicia E *Forensic Engineering 2015 : performance of the built environment : proceedings of the Seventh Congress on Forensic Engineering, November 15-18, 2015, Miami, Florida*. American Society of Civil Engineers, 2015.]

25. "The gradients occur across the wall between the insulation dry by allowing moisture to evap- building consists of a black base of integrally two zones. Adequate wall cavity airflow and orate. Mechanical shades located in this colored concrete supporting a monolithic drainage are not provided and the interior of cavity in front of any windows further reduce block enveloped by opaque, transparent, the wall is inaccessible."[Killory, Christine *Details in Contemporary Architecture*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2007.]