Created: 2025-11-08 12:17:10
Origin: suggested
Selected: The process of exchanging terms is at once richly controversial and creative. It rises from shared sources but in the course of exchange, new springs of difference cause new terms to proliferate. Although the ﬁfteenth century marks the apogee of ‘ﬁghting talk’, the fourteenth ﬁrst sees a noticeable increase in writing that, on the one hand, explicitly indulges in a rhetoric of invective and antagonism and, on the other, more benignly, begins to use and ponder a language of ‘nation’ (natio, nacioun, nascion).[Butterfield, Ardis *The Familiar Enemy: Chaucer, Language, and Nation in the Hundred Years War*. 2010.]

--- Context List ---
01. "The process of exchanging terms is at once richly controversial and creative. It rises from shared sources but in the course of exchange, new springs of difference cause new terms to proliferate. Although the ﬁfteenth century marks the apogee of ‘ﬁghting talk’, the fourteenth ﬁrst sees a noticeable increase in writing that, on the one hand, explicitly indulges in a rhetoric of invective and antagonism and, on the other, more benignly, begins to use and ponder a language of ‘nation’ (natio, nacioun, nascion)."[Butterfield, Ardis *The Familiar Enemy: Chaucer, Language, and Nation in the Hundred Years War*. 2010.]

02. "Coding is thus an intersubjective process in which (ideally) the interlocutors converge on the same interpretation. At a given moment, a speaker is capable of invoking any portions of a vast conceptual universe, including both new and established conceptions, as well as new ways of apprehending the latter. Content that is activated and exploited for linguistic purposes represents the maximal scope of awareness for the expressions that result. An essential aspect of this awareness is the ongoing discourse itself: prior expressions, the present usage event, and the projection of further expressions, all centered on the speaker-hearer interaction."[Li, Thomas Fuyin *Compendium of Cognitive Linguistics Research*. Nova Science Publishers, Inc., 2014.]

03. "To this end, Sinclair (1991) proposed the idiom principle to account for syntagmatic relations between words which cannot be explained in terms of grammar alone. He terms his approach lexical grammar (Sinclair 2004: 164). 9 9 Halliday (1991, 1992) prefers the term lexicogrammar and presents lexis and grammar as two ends of a continuum, with grammar being the ‗deeper‘ end. However, Sinclair (2004: 164) distinguishes lexicogrammar from lexical grammar: ‗[lexicogrammar] is fundamentally grammar with a certain amount of attention to Corpus Linguistics and Cognitive Linguistics 55 Basically, this approach discovers grammatical facts and generalisations about language via lexis, by examining ‗the patterns of hundreds of individual words and phrases‘ (Sinclair 1991: 100), the evidence available from large corpora."[Li, Thomas Fuyin *Compendium of Cognitive Linguistics Research*. Nova Science Publishers, Inc., 2014.]

04. "It has also been claimed that the exclusive use of corpus data itself inevitably leads to the production of new theories of language; Malhberg‘s (2005) monograph of English general nouns is a case in point. Malhberg presents a corpustheoretical approach to examining forms of nouns for meaning in context; her analysis reveals descriptions of subtypes and functional categories for each noun type through exclusive evidence from corpus data."[Li, Thomas Fuyin *Compendium of Cognitive Linguistics Research*. Nova Science Publishers, Inc., 2014.]

05. "Gunn’s study focuses on changes and innovations in the formal features of Chinese writing in the early twentieth century. His book provides detailed documentation and analysis of a variety of linguistic and stylistic innovations ref lected in modern Chinese prose writing. Gunn examines grammar, rhetoric invention, and sentence cohesion in order to demonstrate the exact changes that took place in twentieth- century Chinese writing. In contrast to Gunn’s formal linguistic approach, my study belongs more to the category that is conventionally called “history of ideas. ” 9 I am interested in recording and analyzing changes in ideas or attitudes towards language that took place during the period under investigation."[Zhou, Gang *Placing the Modern Chinese Vernacular in Transnational Literature*. Palgrave Macmillan, 2011.]

06. "This making new can take three forms: it can be a process of dislocation, an amalgam of existing languages, or a search for self-consistent neologism. These three devices do not normally occur in isolation. What we find from the 1870s to the 1930s are numerous variants on the three modes, usually drawing on some element from each. Nonsense poetry and prose, nonsense taxonomies, and nonsense alphabets of many sorts are an ancient genre often active just below the surface of nursery rhymes, limericks, magic spells, riddles, and mnemonic tags. 1 The art of Edward Lear and of Lewis Carroll, however, is probably cognate with the new self-consciousness about language and the logical investigations of semantic conventions which develop in the late nineteenth century."[INPUT: Steiner__After_Babel_Aspects_of_Language_and_Translation.pdf]

07. "Work on dialect, code-switching, and multilingualism is in its infancy in relation to medieval language use, but the more it proceeds the more we are reminded that languages do not function autonomously in multilingual environments, but rather form a shifting set of relationships in which meanings are produced through a constant process of contrast, discrimination, overlap, and rivalry."[Butterfield, Ardis *The Familiar Enemy: Chaucer, Language, and Nation in the Hundred Years War*. 2010.]

08. "In this section we provide a completely different construction of the net system p0/ associated with process p, which is compositional and denotational in style. The details of the construction are outlined in Table 4. 5. The encoding is parametrized by a set of constants that has already been found while scanning p; such a set is initially empty and it is used to avoid looping on recursive constants. The deﬁnition is syntax driven and also the places of the constructed net are syntactic objects, i. e. , SFM process terms."[Gorrieri, Roberto *Process Algebras for Petri Nets: The Alphabetization of Distributed Systems*. Springer, 2017.]

09. "How would this set-and-subset relation change the questions that we ask and the archives that we use?”6 In many ways, this study of the linguistic upheaval in early twentieth-century China echoes exactly what Dimock argues. This book questions the conventional practice that considers the May Fourth vernacular movement as a Chinese phenomenon sufficient unto itself and explores the kind of contour that emerges when one sees the Chinese case as a subset within a larger set—world literature."[Zhou, Gang *Placing the Modern Chinese Vernacular in Transnational Literature*. Palgrave Macmillan, 2011.]

10. "In other words, as soon as the textual form is translated into the graphical form, new observation and analysis methods become applicable. Thus the translation has the ﬂavor of associating with the language a more expressive concurrent semantics. In the book, a clear choice is made about which models to handle: process description language CCS and Place/Transition (P/T) Petri nets, with various syntactic restrictions to yield the expressiveness hierarchy. Only the top level, Nonpermissive nets, is an extension of P/T nets: the extension is needed to achieve Turingcompleteness."[Gorrieri, Roberto *Process Algebras for Petri Nets: The Alphabetization of Distributed Systems*. Springer, 2017.]

11. "See Lurie 2011, 177–185. For more on the Sino-Vietic contact, see Phan 2013, 71–302. It is also noteworthy that Sino-script is not infrequently used to create hybrid forms of writing in these areas, as demonstrated in the mixture of Japanese and Chinese word order and usage in what is called hentai kanbun 變體漢文, “variant form Chinese writing” or, more precisely, “mixed logographic writing” (Lurie 2011). This mixed logographic writing, as shown in the practice of kundoku, generates a new linguistic register “through an intense involvement with Chinese-style logographic writing—a kind of creole— rather than a written record (or reflection) of pre-existing oral speech” (Lurie 2011, 181– 182)."[Elman, Benjamin A. *Rethinking East Asian Languages, Vernaculars, and Literacies, 1000–1919*. Brill Academic Pub, 2014.]

12. "By now, it is beyond question that Chinese literary modernity begins with translation, adaptation, appropriation, and other interlingual practices related to the West. It is only natural that “translation” should play such a central role in the period under investigation. While not interested in the history of translation, much less the technical aspects of translation, Liu’s study of translingual practice focuses on “the process by which new words, meanings, discourses, and modes of representation arise, circulate, and acquire legitimacy within the host language (in this case, the Chinese language) due to, or in spite of, the latter’s contact/collision with the guest language (in this case, Japanese and various Western languages). ”10 Her discussion of the journey of neologism or neologistic constructions—the Japanese used kanji (Chinese characters) to translate European terms, which were then imported back in the Chinese language—offers a refreshing perspective to examine “translingual practice” as the very site where the irreducible differences between languages are fought out, authorities invoked or challenged, and ambiguities dissolved or created, until new words and meanings emerge."[Zhou, Gang *Placing the Modern Chinese Vernacular in Transnational Literature*. Palgrave Macmillan, 2011.]

13. "1 For the most recent attempt to apply formal logic to vagueness, context dependence, metaphor, and polysemy in natural language, cf. M. J. Cresswell, Logics and Languages (London, 1973). Nothing in this acute treatment seems to overcome Wittgenstein’s admonition against the derivation of systematic logic from ordinary language or Tarski’s theorem that ‘there can be no general criterion of truth for sufficiently rich languages’—all natural languages being ‘sufficiendy rich’. SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY THE following is a check-list of material which the student of translation will find of particular use. It is set out chronologically, and begins with Schleiermacher’s essay of 1813. As is pointed out in Chapter Four, this text initiates the modern approach to translation as part of a larger theory of language and understanding. Works marked with an * themselves contain important bibliographies. "[INPUT: Steiner__After_Babel_Aspects_of_Language_and_Translation.pdf]

14. "Every language structures and organizes reality in its own manner and thereby determines the components of reality that are peculiar to this given language. This determination constitutes what Trier, in the early 1930s, called das sprachliche Feld. Thus, in a distinctly Leibnizian way, each tongue or language-monad constructs and operates within a total conceptual field (the imagistic correlation with quantum physics is obvious). This field may be understood as a Gestalt. Being linguistically diverse, different cultures impose a different Gestalt on the same raw material and total aggregate of experience."[INPUT: Steiner__After_Babel_Aspects_of_Language_and_Translation.pdf]

15. "Any attempt to allow the peasant’s explanation its own force would not make academic sense. For that kind of translation to happen, we need a new system of exchange, and one that recognizes the impossibility of the old. The painful silences in the Book of the Duchess, the awkward sense between dreamer and knight that a phrase has just been spoken in an incomprehensible language, correspond to a passage in her essay on the ‘Politics of Translation’ 40 D. Chakrabarty, Provincializing Europe: Postcolonial Thought and Historical Difference (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 2000), 17; G. C. Spivak, Outside in the Teaching Machine (New York and London: Routledge, 1993), 179–200 (181)."[Butterfield, Ardis *The Familiar Enemy: Chaucer, Language, and Nation in the Hundred Years War*. 2010.]