Created: 2025-12-12 20:20:15
Origin: searched
Selected: project. A series of conceptual shifts in scale were This generated an open-ended set of strategies that generated, with each aspect of the project capable of integrated landscape, architecture, and art. being the interior or exterior of the other, creating a The first strategy played upon the clarity and spatial effect much like that of Russian dolls where stability of “picturesque” nature as framed in Mies’s living spaces are contained one within another. These perspectival collages. Artists like Isaac Julien and interior spaces also contained an exterior room within.[James, Vincent, and Jennifer Yoos *VJAA: Vincent James Associates Architects*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2006.]

--- Context List ---
01. "project. A series of conceptual shifts in scale were This generated an open-ended set of strategies that generated, with each aspect of the project capable of integrated landscape, architecture, and art. being the interior or exterior of the other, creating a The first strategy played upon the clarity and spatial effect much like that of Russian dolls where stability of “picturesque” nature as framed in Mies’s living spaces are contained one within another. These perspectival collages. Artists like Isaac Julien and interior spaces also contained an exterior room within."[James, Vincent, and Jennifer Yoos *VJAA: Vincent James Associates Architects*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2006.]

02. "This counterposition concerns the very substance of the architectural endeavor as what Loos calls a "thinking in space. "What are the specifics of this space?Is this making-space an endeavor that establishes places?And are these places a "collection'', a mutual belonging of things and dwelling?Or is this making-space an Ent-ortung, an annihiliation of the places, an arranging of the land as an empty and uniform space at the disposal of the new project?This radical choice remains unquestioned as long as one limits oneself to emphasizing the specifics of architecture as being thinking in space."[Cacciari, Massimo, Stephen Sartarelli (transl.), and Patrizia Lombardo (introduction) *Architecture and Nihilism: On the Philosophy of Modern Architecture*. Yale University Press, 1995.]

03. "The professional setting also demands the same broad range of techniques, from the simply drawn preliminary plan presented informally to the client across a desk to the large formal, complex presentation of a major project in a conference room with many client representatives evaluating the design solution. The primary concern of this text is space planning, not design presentation. Despite this, the language of space planning is the floor plan, and its graphic qualities cannot be entirely ignored."[Karlen, Mark, and Rob Fleming *Space Planning Basics, 4th Edition*. 4th ed. Wiley, 2016.]

04. "Unlike fine art, interior design is an applied art which cannot ascribe to only aesthetic demands. Technique and experience are important factors in this field of art. ”32 Rather than steer our concerns about what is included and excluded from interior design pedagogy back to tired debates about the value and purpose of art and modern distinctions (primarily invoked by higher education) between art and design, instead, consider what van Schaik calls “the art of virtual space. ”33 Complicit with contemporary British social scientist and geographer Doreen Massey’s declaration of the primacy of space and its inclusiveness rather than opposition to time, and architectural theorist Adrian Forty’s outline of a twentieth-century paradigm shift from concerns of surface and tectonics to those of spatiality, Teymur locates a complex slipperiness that cultivates interior design’s emergence and its evasion of (regulatory) definition. 34 Whether one charts the interior via Jean Baudrillard’s System of Objects, interiority through Elizabeth Grosz’s feminist philosophy and Freud’s psychoanalytic theory, or interiors by way of Charlotte Perkins Gilman’s Yellow Wallpaper and Eileen Gray’s lacquered furniture, only a highly permeable membrane remains between interior and space."[Kleinman, Kent, Joanna Merwood-Salisbury, and Lois Weinthal *After Taste: Expanded Practice in Interior Design*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2011.]

05. "This may seem trivial. In fact, this distinction will reveal that surface and volume are the basis for two very different conceptions of stereotypical space. Furthermore, these two epistemologies invite very different cultures of space. Both Laban and Schlemmer developed an understanding of movement space through an application of solid geometry to movement art research. By “solid,” I do not mean a material state, as opposed to a liquid or gas. Solids are three-dimensional geometric objects."[Sutil, Nicolás Salazar *Motion and Representation: The Language of Human Movement*. The MIT Press, 2015.]

06. "An infinity of possibilities resounds in Loos's tectonic. This tectonic must define, give form to, and cover that which remains ephemeral. 14. The New Space But what space in Loos's work poses a problem?What space is a problem for the Baumeister's tekne, which we have just outlined?The questions posed by Heidegger on the subject of plastic art can be seen to assume a certain relevance in this context. 1 For the Baumeister, is it a question of taking possession (Besitzergreifung) of dominating (Beherrschung) the space?"[Cacciari, Massimo, Stephen Sartarelli (transl.), and Patrizia Lombardo (introduction) *Architecture and Nihilism: On the Philosophy of Modern Architecture*. Yale University Press, 1995.]

07. "So far, this entire system rests on a three-step process toward abstraction: from lived-in space, to a diagrammatic description of geometric space, to a respacing of symbols within the domain of script (stave notation). This three-step process guarantees the transcription of the symbol from a 3D diagram to a 2D script in such a way that the symbol does not lose its association with an original lived-in movement and a stereotypical movement space. However, when we read these symbols on a stave, rather than as units within a diagram, or indeed rather than kinesymbols obtained directly from physical life, they lose their concrete existence within movement space and become arbitrary symbols."[Sutil, Nicolás Salazar *Motion and Representation: The Language of Human Movement*. The MIT Press, 2015.]

08. "The studio works in a multitude of creative areas and across disciplines, including textile, landscape, and exhibition design. Images 230–37: Courtesy of Inside Outside Mercedes-Benz Museum, Stuttgart, Germany, 2004–6 Brush wall for acoustic regulation in the espresso bar Lime-green finned curtain with black backing Mercedes-Benz Museum, Stuttgart, Germany, 2004–6 Outside the space-creating darkening curtain on the first floor, and detail of split and seam Inside the space-creating darkening curtain Villa Leefdaal, Leefdaal, Belgium, 2003–4 Living room with curtain pulled closed meeting the glass wall and landscape Villa in the landscape, and view outside a bedroom with pink circles Bedroom with perforated curtain Toledo Glass Pavilion, Toledo Museum of Art, Toledo, Ohio, 2002–5 Sample curtain of silkscreened dots and floral pattern on blackout curtains Sample curtain of silkscreened dot pattern on tulle, with white dots on one side and golden dots slightly shifted on the other Sample of a layered curtain Drawing showing overview of curtains Acknowledgments This publication has been made possible by grants from the Graham Foundation for Advanced Studies in the Fine Arts and Parsons The New School for Design."[Kleinman, Kent, Joanna Merwood-Salisbury, and Lois Weinthal *After Taste: Expanded Practice in Interior Design*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2011.]

09. "According to him, there are two types of pictorial space: "a non-characterized" space, and a "characterized" space. Since space is the basic objective material and frame of the plastic work, this pictorial space should be organized in relation to a figurative topic. Rudrauf, opposing Woelfflin, whose division of the pictorial composition into "open" and "closed" has been, until recently, dominant in art criticism, classifies types of composition from the rhythmic point of view into "diffused" and "scanned. ""[(auth.), Anna-Teresa Tymieniecka, and Anna-Teresa Tymieniecka (eds.) *Logos and Life: Creative Experience and the Critique of Reason: Introduction to the Phenomenology of Life and the Human Condition*. Springer Netherlands, 1987.]

10. "That is to say, the saturation, thickness, turn, twist, flow, rhythm and interrelationship (and colour) of its lines is enough to orient the space of the paper or canvas to present all the phenomena that can be made available in visual art. However, it may be clear to us now that the space that is thereby modulated in traditional art is an artificial and fictional one. It is that thin pure space that sits a little behind the canvas and into the wall on which it must hang."[(auth.), Samuel B. Mallin *Art Line Thought*. Springer Netherlands, 1996.]

11. "Hildebrandt goes further to highlight a profound conceptually based rift between interior design and interior architecture: [I]nterior design is grounded in the condition of additive assemblies and separate contracted services. While the design processes of architecture and interior design share the same procedural sequence and a core discipline vocabulary, interior design, both as a discipline and in its product, is (or can be) free of the weight of the architecture. Additive assemblies within the “interior” may establish an independent language. . . intentionally, conceptually, and contractually removed from the building shell. 26 Whether in an educational or professional context, interior design’s association with architecture necessitates an imperative for students and practitioners to become familiar with a wide scope of building technologies, including materials and systems, structures, physics, health and safety issues, mathematics, and sustainable practices."[Kleinman, Kent, Joanna Merwood-Salisbury, and Lois Weinthal *After Taste: Expanded Practice in Interior Design*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2011.]

12. "The space conception of a period can give insight into man’s attitude towards the cosmos, towards nature and towards eternity. As so often in high civilisations space has manifold meanings. On the one hand the symbolic background to architectural space was Courtyard Housing 138 bound up with a grandiose cosmic outlook based on the movements of the stars and the natural cycles of the day; on the other it was tied to a rigid social hierarchy. According to Giedion (1981, p. 176), the elements whose combinations build up our first conception of space are: abstraction; the supremacy of the vertical; the plane surface; and volumes in space."[Edwards, Brian *Courtyard Housing*. Taylor & Francis Group, 2006.]

13. "In this sense it is a Grundriss: fundamental plan, project, design, sketch, outline. A series of locutions is then printed, whose current, usual, "literal" sense, so to speak, finds itself re-activated at the same time as it is discreetly re inscribed, displaced, put back into play in what makes for a work in this context. The Grundriss is Aufriss (breaching, broaching incision and, in the common sense, essential profile, schema, projection) that draws (zeichnet) the fundamental traits (Grundzuge, and here are crossing the two systems of traits that serve to say trait in the language) of the clearing of being."[Derrida, Jacques *Psyche: Inventions of the Other, Volume I (Meridian: Crossing Aesthetics)*. Stanford University Press, 2007.]

14. "As promised, here is the fuller context from Of Grammatology’s final chapter: If one thinks, finally, that the scriptural space is linked, as Rousseau intuited, to the nature of social space, to the perceptive and dynamic organization of technical, religious, economic space and so forth, one has an idea of the difficulty of a transcendental question about space. A new transcendental aesthetic should let itself be guided [. . . ]by the possibility of inscription in general, which does not befall like some contingent accident an already constituted space, but produces the spatiality of space."[Gaston, Sean, and Ian MacLachlan (editors) *Reading Derrida's Of Grammatology*. Continuum, 2011.]

15. "In a certain sense Bergson acknowledges the becoming one of the other, the relation of direct inversion between them, when he conceptualizes space as the contraction of time, and time as the expansion or dilation of space. Space is mired in misconceptions and assumptions, habits and unreﬂective gestures that convert and transform it. Architecture, the art or science of spatial manipulation, must be as implicated in this as any other discipline or practice. According to Bergson, a certain habit of thought inverts the relations between space and objects, space and extension, to make it seem as if space precedes objects, when in fact space itself is produced through matter, extension, and movement: Space in itself, space outside these ruses of the imagination, is not static, ﬁxed, inﬁnitely expandable, inﬁnitely divisible, concrete, extended, continuous, and homogenous, though perhaps we must think it in these terms in order to continue our everyday lives (and the architect is perhaps more invested in this understanding of space than anyone else)."[Grosz, Elizabeth *Architecture from the Outside: Essays on Virtual and Real Space (Writing Architecture)*. 2001.]