Created: 2025-12-12 23:56:22
Origin: searched
Selected: Whether internally, within the logic of form, for example, or externally, within  that of form and use, these disjunctive levels break apart any possible balance or  synthesis.  In  their  individual  state,  objects,  movements,  events  are  simply  discontinuous. Only when they unite do they establish an instant of continuity.  Such disjunction implies a dynamic conception posed against a static definition of  architecture, an excessive movement that brings architecture to its limits. Notation [INPUT: Tschumi - 1994 - The Manhattan transcripts.pdf]

--- Context List ---
01. "One could reiterate Meyer’s reflections on the relationship between the roof and the enclosure and argue for the importance of construction for the present architecture. This discussion also entails the specificity of the conversion of matter into form; although mediatic techniques have opened a different perceptual field, architectural form is still realized through techniques that can transform historical style into constructive style. Here I would like to draw two conclusions from my excursion into Benjamin’s notes on construction."[Hartoonian, Gevork *Walter Benjamin and architecture*. London, New York: Routledge, 2010.]

02. "Charging these buildings with the idea of wish-images, the idea is to recall Benjamin’s discourse in which architecture is presented as a technical form. Similar to the correspondence between the archaic-symbolic world and that of modern technology,24 form in architecture could internalize the ‘constructive style’, debunking the symbolic world proper to the material of building. If engineers could entertain iron in conjunction with a utilitarian logic vested in artefacts of primitive societies, architects, instead, had to give lip service to the long history of their profession, that is, representation, and the fact that architecture stands somewhere between a utilitarian artefact and a work of art, to recall Adolf Loos’s famous distinction between architecture and art. 25 Thus, in the nineteenth century, buildings could not reach the stage where the form is emancipated from art (the symbolic world Benjamin says), even though a start was made towards seeing ‘architecture as engineered construction’. 26 Benjamin asks: ‘are not all great conquests in the field of forms ultimately a matter of technical discoveries?’27 Seemingly, it is not clear what Benjamin means by ‘the field of forms’."[Hartoonian, Gevork *Walter Benjamin and architecture*. London, New York: Routledge, 2010.]

03. "Today, architecture is being reduced to the practice of “building images. ”60 In a society saturated by images, the aesthetic practice of architecture has increasingly become “photogenic. ” Against this, it should rather become “photographic,” in the sense I elaborated above. From the misguided idea of architecture as “Sign” in its different variations in the 1970s, the discourse of building has merely moved towards another version as “ image-making,” or “hyperbuilding,” conceived as a form of “media. ” The resulting anaestheticization is the consequence of a failure to “reimagine the aesthetic” of building within the paradigm of the new technology."[Hartoonian, Gevork *Walter Benjamin and architecture*. London, New York: Routledge, 2010.]

04. "Conversely, architecture as a discipline focuses on the permanence of the architectural object and the myth of its perfectability. DeLanda’s synthetic understanding of cities is inherently destabilizing to architecture because it elevates material factors to the same level as cultural production. The current fascination with fluidity may serve as a catalyst toward a new understanding of architectural processes. However, the preoccupation with representations of fluidity as built form restricts us to rigidly conventional architectural discourse."[James, Vincent, and Jennifer Yoos *VJAA: Vincent James Associates Architects*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2006.]

05. "Whether internally, within the logic of form, for example, or externally, within  that of form and use, these disjunctive levels break apart any possible balance or  synthesis.  In  their  individual  state,  objects,  movements,  events  are  simply  discontinuous. Only when they unite do they establish an instant of continuity.  Such disjunction implies a dynamic conception posed against a static definition of  architecture, an excessive movement that brings architecture to its limits. Notation "[INPUT: Tschumi - 1994 - The Manhattan transcripts.pdf]

06. "This connection between the analysis and the design of architecture is especially explored in chapter 2. Here, the Dutch cultural anthropologist and architectural historian Eric Roose shows an interest in the relation between form and meaning as it envelops itself in the creative act of producing a mosque design. Where existing approaches to Dutch mosques seem to always come down to inventing formal typologies related to styles and cultures that do not at all match the complexities of the empirical field, Roose takes the representational paradigm as a means to breaking open the tension between meaning as attributed to a building by a detached architectural critic and as produced by the relevant parties in the design itself."[Mekking, Aart J.J., and Eric Roose *The Global Built Environment as a Representation of Realities: Why and How Architecture Should Be the Subject of Worldwide Comparison*. 2009.]

07. "More than did Rotary Arc or Shift, Terminal lets us intuit how this regular style of "form" is completely one with "matter", such that its form is the materiality itself coming forward as a progressive transcending of its ownmost sinuosity. However, it is equally important to notice that this rationalist planning, calculation and engineering of the earth includes every kind of technological, designing and language system."[(auth.), Samuel B. Mallin *Art Line Thought*. Springer Netherlands, 1996.]

08. "As G. Z. Brown explains, “building design is a creative process based on iteration: one begins by responding to a situation with an abstract idea. Then one objectifies the idea, by proposing a trial design, evaluates it, redesigns it, develops it, reevaluates it, and so on. ”12 Striving for coherence, while accommodating a density of conditions and requirements, is central to this undertaking. Because of their potential for insight into solving problems and for creative inspiration, entertaining new metaphors function serves as an effective tool in this process."[(auth.), Gary Backhaus, Gary Backhaus, and John Murungi (eds.) *Symbolic Landscapes*. Springer Netherlands, 2009.]

09. "The term “building” is itself circumscribed by assumptions about functional boundaries, institutional identity, economic resources, and the realization of a physical form as a discrete cultural event. Architects are expected to challenge a building’s form but not its ideological underpinning or the urbanism that it suggests. Architect and theorist Neil Leach calls this “architecture’s intoxication with aesthetics,”3 and it is central to the inability of architects to effectively address issues of urbanization in more comprehensive terms."[James, Vincent, and Jennifer Yoos *VJAA: Vincent James Associates Architects*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2006.]

10. "■ The pretext of using of modern building materials and construction technology has led to the abandonment of local cultural traditions, instead of subjugating them to serve local architectural thought and environmental circumstances. This can be attributed to the popular understanding that using modern materials leads to a radical change in architectural principles. As a result the language of architectural form is invariably the logical result of using new construction materials and modern techniques of structural assembly."[Edwards, Brian *Courtyard Housing*. Taylor & Francis Group, 2006.]

11. "Brad Zuger, Architectural Designer, Shanghai MADA, S. P. A. M.  Architecture is that form of building and placemaking that elevates and illuminates the meaning of being human.  More than a building, architecture is beauty and Joseph Bilello, Ph. D. , AIA, Professor and Former Dean, Ball State University  Architecture is a method to solve issues relevant to a progressing contemporary culture. function in form. Christopher J. Gribbs, Associate AIA; Senior Director, American Institute of Architects  Architecture is everything."[Waldrep, Lee W. *Becoming an Architect: A Guide to Careers in Design*. 2nd ed. Wiley, 2009.]

12. "Therefore, in my dissertation, I had to establish a number of essential, new theoretical foundations. I chose to introduce the iconological approach to architecture, as it was practiced in Germany, into the Netherlands. I found that the research of the connection between certain historical data and the choice for certain architectural The Global Built Environment as a Representation of Realities 9 forms could be most adequately termed ‘reception research. ’ It was based on the frequently encountered conclusion that, in the Middle Ages, existing building schemes, parts and forms, because of their symbolic meaning, were consciously taken over to be processed into a new building commission."[Mekking, Aart J.J., and Eric Roose *The Global Built Environment as a Representation of Realities: Why and How Architecture Should Be the Subject of Worldwide Comparison*. 2009.]

13. "But in the fact that the End achieved is characterised only as a Means and a material, this object, viz. the teleological, is there and then put as implicitly null, and only 'ideal'. This being so, the antithesis between form and content has also vanished. While the End by the removal and absorption of all form−characteristics coalesces with itself, the form as self−identical is thereby put as the content, so that the notion, which is the action of form, has only itself for content."[F, Hegel G. W. *Encyclopaedia of the Philosophical Sciences*. 2011.]

14. "In several categories of essence we can discern an Aristotelian inspiration. Kern has shown how the chapter “Form and Matter” seems to overlap point by point with the text of the Lectures on substance (VGPh 154–6). 14 Aristotle, we have seen, sets the Platonic Idea in motion and inserts into it the negative moment of determination. Form is the specification of matter, the activity of distinction in the passive substrate."[Ferrarin, Alfredo *Hegel and Aristotle*. Cambridge University Press, 2007.]

15. "For that, I needed a more all-encompassing perspective than the iconological method, which had been introduced and developed mainly with Western-medieval examples in mind. I subsequently introduced the notion, derived from postmodern philosophy, of ‘representation,’ which I defined as any historically founded proposal, be it visual (architectural design) or verbal (historical/anthropological text), to ‘see’ reality in a certain way. 11 Because the logic of representation is not based on any knowledge-theoretical a priori, such as certain laws and schemes of thought, any form of objective reality is discarded."[Mekking, Aart J.J., and Eric Roose *The Global Built Environment as a Representation of Realities: Why and How Architecture Should Be the Subject of Worldwide Comparison*. 2009.]