Created: 2025-11-14 16:47:09
Origin: suggested
Selected: ‘Information man’ remains a shadowy and unreal figure. ’ Like ‘economic man,’ ‘information man’ is a fiction used for simplifying for a computer’s sake the social-communicative characteristics of humans. What we need is an interdisciplinary conceptualization of the problem area; from, this we will then have to develop conceptualization methods to ensure that all important aspects of the design of documentmediating systems and other types of information systems have been addressed. Judging from the past twenty years of computer systems development, it is clear that the manipulation of natural language by machines in a social-communicative setting with humans poses major theoretical and 50 Cybersemiotics practical problems.[Brier, Soren *Cybersemiotics: Why Information Is Not Enough!*. 2nd. University of Toronto Press, 2008.]

--- Context List ---
01. "This recalls the telecommunicative relationship between signal(-structure) and message. At this point, thanks to the daily use of information-bearing, information-processing, or information-storing machines, we are quite familiar with the material structures and changes over time that are ascribed to the transmission, transformation, or retention of information or messages. In those cases, one can say, for example, that the (geometric) shape of the grooves in a record “encodes” or bears in “encrypted” form the “information” that will be heard as music or speech once the record is played."[Janich, Peter, Eric Hayot, and Lea Pao *What Is Information?*. Univ Of Minnesota Press, 2018.]

02. "It seems clear, therefore, that everyday language is bound up with two different traditions: one the tradition of linguistic communication (which requires an attention to the functionality of information), the other the tradition of information technology focused on processes of transforming, coding, and decoding. These telecommunicative processes have a structure, but that structure does not have to be linguistic, meaningful, or capable of being true or false. ON THE AGE OF CONTRADICTION The myths and icons of naturalized information we have seen so far might seem to suggest that the newly germinating disciplines of the twentieth century—c ybernetics or the mathematical theory of information, or their borrowings in biology, chemistry, and physics—a re 10 Information and Myth fundamentally responsible for this interesting ambiguity in ordinary speech."[Janich, Peter, Eric Hayot, and Lea Pao *What Is Information?*. Univ Of Minnesota Press, 2018.]

03. "I hope this book will inspire other LIS researchers to take a new approach to the problems they work with, and I encourage feedback. Recto Running Head 425 12 Summing Up Cybersemiotics: The Five-Level Cybersemiotic Framework for the Foundation of Information, Cognition, and Communication 12. 1 Introduction The result of preceding analysis of cognitive science, information science, the information processing paradigm, the cybernetic information paradigm including Bateson, second order cybernetics, ethology, and library and information science document retrieval problems is this: it does not seem possible to establish a foundation for a transdisciplinary information science without relating it to theories of cognition, communication, mind, and meaning that span the humanities and social sciences on one hand, and the classical sciences and a theory of evolution on the other."[Brier, Soren *Cybersemiotics: Why Information Is Not Enough!*. 2nd. University of Toronto Press, 2008.]

04. "I will now analyse the difficulties faced by library and information science (LIS) when it comes to constructing a user-friendly system for mediating electronic documents – especially for information retrieval (IR) – by applying the cognitive information processing paradigm. The main problem with this paradigm is that its concept of information and language does not systematically address how social and cultural dynamics determine the meaning of those signs and words, which are LIS’s basic tools for organizing and retrieving documents."[Brier, Soren *Cybersemiotics: Why Information Is Not Enough!*. 2nd. University of Toronto Press, 2008.]

05. "Similarly, also information systems (CAD modelling environments, simulation or calculation environments, archive applications, and visualisation applications) can be considered different environments in which a certain episode in the design process can take place, thereby altering both the further design process and the guiding principles of the designer (see also [16]). According to Lawson, these guiding principles include not just objective, factual information but also information involving, for instance, motivations, beliefs, values, and attitudes."[Magnani, Lorenzo *Model-based reasoning in science and technology : theoretical and cognitive issues*. Springer, 2013.]

06. "‘Information man’ remains a shadowy and unreal figure. ’ Like ‘economic man,’ ‘information man’ is a fiction used for simplifying for a computer’s sake the social-communicative characteristics of humans. What we need is an interdisciplinary conceptualization of the problem area; from, this we will then have to develop conceptualization methods to ensure that all important aspects of the design of documentmediating systems and other types of information systems have been addressed. Judging from the past twenty years of computer systems development, it is clear that the manipulation of natural language by machines in a social-communicative setting with humans poses major theoretical and 50 Cybersemiotics practical problems."[Brier, Soren *Cybersemiotics: Why Information Is Not Enough!*. 2nd. University of Toronto Press, 2008.]

07. "The resulting focus on language as a sequentially ordered practice has increased the appreciation of CA and EM. However, in spite of these insights, information is still usually treated as something that has existence in its own right—that social things are done to and with—that existing independently, information also comes to have a social life. Garfinkel, by contrast, has since 1952 treated information as almost entirely dependent on constitutive social elements for its existence. The classic examinations of the intersection between language and information by Shannon, Weaver, Bateson, etc. , that Garfinkel makes creative use of in this manuscript, date from just before and after the second world war."[Garfinkel, Harold, and Anne Rawls (ed.) *Toward a Sociological Theory of Information*. Paradigm, 2008.]

08. "Finally, the Dictionary of Computers, Data Processing, and Telecommunications (Rosenberg 1984) treats information semantically and data formally. 21. The question of whether data and information consist of form or content is not the only point of dispute in the literature on these concepts. Some authors use the concepts interchangeably; others take pains to distinguish them."[Von Eckardt, Barbara *What is cognitive science?*. MIT Press, 1995.]

09. "At this stage of research, such colour information is considered representative for the kind of information typically available in our environment or world. The main hypothesis concluded from this experimental environment states that Peirce’s reasoning cycle might be configured in reasoning levels, with each level handling information or patterns in different levels of invariance and meaning."[Magnani, Lorenzo *Model-based reasoning in science and technology : theoretical and cognitive issues*. Springer, 2013.]

10. "Information, by allowing us to organize, track, and sequence objects and actions, can help us overcome many constraints. Information itself, of course, has a cost, and can therefore also act as a constraint, a factor we will also explore. New technology may incorporate information, such as in computer controlled fuel injection in cars, or may result from the substitution of new materials or processes (which of course is also the result of new information produced by experimentation). In the sections that follow, the role of constraints in different domains is explored in the context of the roles of information and new technology in overcoming these constraints."[Loehle, Craig *Becoming a Successful Scientist: Strategic Thinking for Scientific Discovery*. Cambridge University Press, 2010.]

11. "For Garfinkel it is not only words but objects that are “thingified” through use. Any referential relationship between the two would need to come after this social process—in each case. “We know the thing information,” Garfinkel maintains (113), “through usage. We’re looking for the ideas that are immanent to the concept of information in use. ” The problem has been in treating information, like meaning, in abstraction—as a thing in itself."[Garfinkel, Harold, and Anne Rawls (ed.) *Toward a Sociological Theory of Information*. Paradigm, 2008.]

12. "Garfinkel’s alternative theory not only casts information in a new light, but also promises to clarify the role of Ethnomethodology (EM) and Conversation Analysis (CA) in contemporary detailed studies of the workplace—and also to highlight strengths and limitations of existing approaches to information— thereby more adequately grounding current research and design efforts. 4 By the early 1950s—when Garfinkel did this work at Princeton—the information age had ushered in a new focus on information, the design and 3."[Garfinkel, Harold, and Anne Rawls (ed.) *Toward a Sociological Theory of Information*. Paradigm, 2008.]

13. "Both in academia and in the popular imagination, our sense of this new life with and as information, this intensification of informational life, seems to stem from a series of recent technological transformations—most prominently the rise of digital methods of information encoding, compression, storage, and networking. But “information” can also be understood as a matter of human concern for far longer, dating back to what Michael E. Hobart and Zachary Schiffman call the earlier “information ages” characterized by the development of writing (in Mesopotamia, 3500 b. c. e. )"[Janich, Peter, Eric Hayot, and Lea Pao *What Is Information?*. Univ Of Minnesota Press, 2018.]

14. "However, they may also be used to refer to representations designating those numbers, or characters, or propositions, and insofar as that is true the terms are being used in a nonsemantic, purely formal sense. 20 The ambiguity is tolerated within computer science for two reasons. First, the operation upon data (information) in the semantic sense is contingent upon the operation upon data (information) in the formal sense and everyone knows this. For example, the computer adds two numbers (data in the semantic sense) in virtue of manipulating representations of those numbers (data in the formal sense)."[Von Eckardt, Barbara *What is cognitive science?*. MIT Press, 1995.]

15. "The blackboard also contains newly noticed information that is accumulated while the problem-solver is engaged in particular subgoal solutions. This newly noticed information may be used at that point in the subgoal task and may perhaps also influence new subgoal formulation, but the new information may also be placed more permanently on the blackboard. Simon summarizes this interaction between short term (goal tree) and long-term (blackboard) memory as follows: The course of problem solving, then, involves continuous interaction between goal tree and blackboard."[Schaffner, Kenneth F. *Discovery and Explanation in Biology and Medicine (Science and Its Conceptual Foundations Series)*. University Of Chicago Press, 1994.]