Created: 2025-12-12 20:30:50
Origin: searched
Selected: Architecture becomes a dynamic process rather than a fixed object, responsive to the environment, and an event to be activated. An architectural understanding that resonates with Ricoeur’s very notion of metaphor; “to present all things ‘as in act’—such could well be the ontological function of its new metaphorical discourse, in which every dormant potentiality of existence appears as blossoming forth, every latent capacity for action as actualized. ”34 198 B. Muller As I have attempted to argue: (1) by employing metaphors in the design process, consciously or not, architects frame an awareness of certain conditions that influence the direction of future explorations, and (2) “green” metaphors invite greater environmental attunement and therefore are helping reshape practice for the better.[(auth.), Gary Backhaus, Gary Backhaus, and John Murungi (eds.) *Symbolic Landscapes*. Springer Netherlands, 2009.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Architecture has tended to conceive of itself as an art, a science, or a mechanics for the manipulation of space, indeed probably the largest, most systematic and most powerful mode for spatial organization and modiﬁcation. Space itself, the very stuff of architectural reﬂection and production, requires and entails a mode of time, timeliness, or duration. Indeed, space must always involve at least two times, or perhaps two kinds of time. The ﬁrst is the time of the emergence of space as such, a time before time and space, a temporalization/spatialization that precedes and renders the organization or emergence of space as such and time as such and thus emerges before any scientiﬁc understanding of a space-time continuum. 1 This is the space-time of difference, of différance ( Jacques Derrida discusses différance as precisely the temporization of space and the spatialization of time), or differentiation (in Deleuzian terms, differing from itself ), which is a precondition of and prior to the space and time of life, of understanding, of science."[Grosz, Elizabeth *Architecture from the Outside: Essays on Virtual and Real Space (Writing Architecture)*. 2001.]

02. "Architecture becomes a dynamic process rather than a fixed object, responsive to the environment, and an event to be activated. An architectural understanding that resonates with Ricoeur’s very notion of metaphor; “to present all things ‘as in act’—such could well be the ontological function of its new metaphorical discourse, in which every dormant potentiality of existence appears as blossoming forth, every latent capacity for action as actualized. ”34 198 B. Muller As I have attempted to argue: (1) by employing metaphors in the design process, consciously or not, architects frame an awareness of certain conditions that influence the direction of future explorations, and (2) “green” metaphors invite greater environmental attunement and therefore are helping reshape practice for the better."[(auth.), Gary Backhaus, Gary Backhaus, and John Murungi (eds.) *Symbolic Landscapes*. Springer Netherlands, 2009.]

03. "p. cm. — (Writing architecture) Includes bibliographical references and index. ISBN 0-262-57149-8 (pbk. : alk. paper) 1. Architecture—Philosophy. 2. Space (Architecture)—Philosophy. I. Title. II. Series. NA2500 . G76 2001 720´. 1—dc21 2001018300 Acknowledgments vii Foreword by Peter Eisenman xi Introduction xv Part One Embodied Spaces one Embodying Space: An Interview two Lived Spatiality (The Spaces of Corporeal Desire) 31 Futures, Cities, Architecture 49 four Architecture from the Outside 57 ﬁve Cyberspace, Virtuality, and the Real: Some three 3 Part Two Transitional Spaces Architectural Reflections six 75 In-Between: The Natural in Architecture and Culture 91 Part Three Future Spaces seven The Future of Space: Toward an Architecture of Invention 109 eight Embodied Utopias: The Time of Architecture 131 nine Architectures of Excess 151 The Thing 167 ten Notes 185 Bibliography 207 Index 215 I am an outsider to the ﬁeld of architecture."[Grosz, Elizabeth *Architecture from the Outside: Essays on Virtual and Real Space (Writing Architecture)*. 2001.]

04. "Amerigo Marras (New York: Princeton Architectural Press, 1999), 39–49. 14 This said, McHale was still deeply invested in the idea of housing on a global scale. For more on this, see John McHale, “World Dwelling,” Perspecta: The Yale Architectural Journal 11 (1967): 120–29. 15 This was at least partially the fault, Banham stressed, of the first generation of architectural historians that chronicled modern architecture by focusing more on form than environmental technology. 16 Indeed, such a schism would become exacerbated with the full flowering of postmodern architecture just a few years later."[Kleinman, Kent, Joanna Merwood-Salisbury, and Lois Weinthal *After Taste: Expanded Practice in Interior Design*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2011.]

05. "This counterposition concerns the very substance of the architectural endeavor as what Loos calls a "thinking in space. "What are the specifics of this space?Is this making-space an endeavor that establishes places?And are these places a "collection'', a mutual belonging of things and dwelling?Or is this making-space an Ent-ortung, an annihiliation of the places, an arranging of the land as an empty and uniform space at the disposal of the new project?This radical choice remains unquestioned as long as one limits oneself to emphasizing the specifics of architecture as being thinking in space."[Cacciari, Massimo, Stephen Sartarelli (transl.), and Patrizia Lombardo (introduction) *Architecture and Nihilism: On the Philosophy of Modern Architecture*. Yale University Press, 1995.]

06. "While the outcome of the environmental design movement in architecture has been studied and subjected to critique, its influence on interior design pedagogy and practice has not. Using as a case study a program that experienced a radical version of this transformation, this essay will explore the moment in the mid-1960s when the criterion of taste was emphatically rejected. The introduction of environmental design principles into Parsons’ curriculum did more than simply alter course content. In the name of greater social awareness and responsiveness, the new pedagogy blurred distinctions between disciplines and in the process toppled fundamental notions of design teaching and practice, including established means of representation and an orientation toward historical styles."[Kleinman, Kent, Joanna Merwood-Salisbury, and Lois Weinthal *After Taste: Expanded Practice in Interior Design*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2011.]

07. "It is here that it is instructive to position the engagement and use of new digital media within architecture as part of these larger cultural transformations; for there is a parallel rise between the use of digital technology within architecture and popular entertainment. During the period that architecture slowly moved to adopt digital means of drawing and modelling these systems were producing ever more ‘realistic’ representations of architectural space within popular game environments."[Arya, Rina *Francis Bacon: Critical and Theoretical Perspectives*. Peter Lang International Academic Publishers, 2012.]

08. "Bell, Bryan and Wakeford, Katie (eds. ). (2008). Expanding Architecture: Design as Activism. New York: Metropolis Books. ISBN 1-93304578-7. Expanding Architecture presents a new generation of creative design carried out in the service of the greater public and the greater good. Questioning how design can improve daily lives, editors Bryan Bell and Katie Wakeford map an emerging geography of architectural activism—or “public-interest architecture”— that might function akin to public-interest law or medicine by expanding architecture’s all too often elite client base."[Waldrep, Lee W. *Becoming an Architect: A Guide to Careers in Design*. 2nd ed. Wiley, 2009.]

09. "Hildebrandt goes further to highlight a profound conceptually based rift between interior design and interior architecture: [I]nterior design is grounded in the condition of additive assemblies and separate contracted services. While the design processes of architecture and interior design share the same procedural sequence and a core discipline vocabulary, interior design, both as a discipline and in its product, is (or can be) free of the weight of the architecture. Additive assemblies within the “interior” may establish an independent language. . . intentionally, conceptually, and contractually removed from the building shell. 26 Whether in an educational or professional context, interior design’s association with architecture necessitates an imperative for students and practitioners to become familiar with a wide scope of building technologies, including materials and systems, structures, physics, health and safety issues, mathematics, and sustainable practices."[Kleinman, Kent, Joanna Merwood-Salisbury, and Lois Weinthal *After Taste: Expanded Practice in Interior Design*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2011.]

10. "Two things should be kept in mind, however: (comparative world) architectural history, and the paradigms of architectural design and traditions. If these conditions were to be fulfilled, those active in the field of architecture would probably be able to find satisfying and objectifying responses to the central question: What does architectural commissioning, designing and building really mean other than its strictly physiological tasks?The response to these questions should be used to free modern architecture from the naive functionalist dogma, which is based on a presumed Western superiority that the Dutch architectural world continues, if somewhat unconsciously – to take for granted."[Mekking, Aart J.J., and Eric Roose *The Global Built Environment as a Representation of Realities: Why and How Architecture Should Be the Subject of Worldwide Comparison*. 2009.]

11. "For these reasons, the introduction of novel metaphorical insights in the world of architecture have had a profound impact in redirecting architectural thought and practice in the past, while new metaphorical domains are providing a visionary expansion of opportunities for poetic and sensitive environmental responses. A caring sensitivity towards our world (not to mention tenacity of design exploration) is assumed a precondition for the creating of deeply responsive architectural works. Novel, “green” metaphors, as I hope to demonstrate, orient such exploration towards an open (re)inaugurating receptivity to our dynamic yet Metaphor, Environmental Receptivity, and Architectural Design 187 fragile worldly inhabitation, and to ways of shaping and making commensurate with this originative condition."[(auth.), Gary Backhaus, Gary Backhaus, and John Murungi (eds.) *Symbolic Landscapes*. Springer Netherlands, 2009.]

12. "S. E. Experiencing Architecture (Ch^pm^in Rasmussen, Richards, J. : M. : 1). Modern Movement (Penguin, i960). & Hall i960). An Introduction to Modern Architecture (Penguin 1956), Smith, G. E. Kidder: The New Architecture of Europe (Penguin 1962). Stephenson, H. and L. : Exterior Design (Studio Books 1963). Stillman, C. G. and Cleary, R. C. : The Modern School (Architectural Press 1949). Wright, F. L. An Autobiography {p2ibQ. t 1945). Yorke, F. R. S. The Modern House in England (AtchitectuTal Press 1957)."[West, T. W *A history of architecture in England*. 2nd ed. David McKay Company,Inc., 1966.]

13. "Schwartz, Barry. 2004. The Paradox of Choice: Why More Is Less. New York: Ecco. Simon, Herbert Alexander. 1996. The Sciences of the Artificial. Third edition. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. Star, Susan Leigh, and Karen Ruhleder. 1996. “Steps Toward an Ecology of Infrastructure: Design and Access for Large Information Spaces. ” Information Systems Research 7 (1): 111–134. Tapscott, Don, and Anthony D. Williams. 2006. Wikinomics: How Mass Collaboration Changes Everything. New York: Portfolio. Thackara, John. 1988. Design After Modernism: Beyond the Object."[Ulrik, Ekman, Bolter Jay David, and Díaz Lily (Eds). *Ubiquitous Computing, Complexity and Culture*. 2017.]

14. "In a certain sense Bergson acknowledges the becoming one of the other, the relation of direct inversion between them, when he conceptualizes space as the contraction of time, and time as the expansion or dilation of space. Space is mired in misconceptions and assumptions, habits and unreﬂective gestures that convert and transform it. Architecture, the art or science of spatial manipulation, must be as implicated in this as any other discipline or practice. According to Bergson, a certain habit of thought inverts the relations between space and objects, space and extension, to make it seem as if space precedes objects, when in fact space itself is produced through matter, extension, and movement: Space in itself, space outside these ruses of the imagination, is not static, ﬁxed, inﬁnitely expandable, inﬁnitely divisible, concrete, extended, continuous, and homogenous, though perhaps we must think it in these terms in order to continue our everyday lives (and the architect is perhaps more invested in this understanding of space than anyone else)."[Grosz, Elizabeth *Architecture from the Outside: Essays on Virtual and Real Space (Writing Architecture)*. 2001.]

15. "Srygley interprets the main street-like development as presenting an allegory that critiques both the suburban landscape that it extols and the urban landscape that it shuns. It presents this allegory through the architectural oxymoron of a private public space. Nevertheless, due to an urban, historical amnesia, whereby people no longer understand what quality urban space is about, this allegorical critique is not experienced, rather, the ersatz main street makes for a “successful” con. It is precisely the absence of a veritable embodied urban experience that allows for a cheap imitation “to work. ” In chapter eight, “Metaphor, Environmental Receptivity, and Architectural Design,” Brook Muller discusses the important role of metaphor in architectural design."[(auth.), Gary Backhaus, Gary Backhaus, and John Murungi (eds.) *Symbolic Landscapes*. Springer Netherlands, 2009.]