Created: 2025-12-27 02:02:39
Origin: suggested
Selected: Experience has shown during so many documented firefighter fatality incidents that Murphy’s Law, which simply states that anything that could go wrong…will go wrong, has happened repeatedly. Radio failure, burst hoselines, structural collapse, loss of accountability, and so many more problems have been known to occur when a firefighter was reported to be missing, lost, trapped, or when a victim called a Mayday. Using the earlier example of the firefighter trapped in the basement, if Plan A was to pull the victim up the stairs and it was found that the stairs were too weak to be used for the rescue, what is Plan B? Plan B can involve shoring the staircase from underneath, and a subsequent Plan C can involve using a ground ladder to bridge over the top of the stairs to distribute the weight.[Kolomay, Richard, and Robert Hoff *Firefighter Rescue And Survival*. Tulsa, Okla: PennWell, 2003.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Going The depth of a stair tread from its leading edge to the vertical element between the treads (riser). Guardrail A rail to prevent a user falling down a well. Often a handrail does this, but in some stairs a separate higher guardrail is provided behind. Handrail The component gripped to aid ascent and descent. Imperial A staircase in an open hall commencing with a single straight flight to a wide landing where two branches either side return at 180°."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

02. "Some people still protest that such a distinction should still be made – that the word ‘staircase’ should mean the enclosure and not the stair. However, this definition does not reflect either the OED or common usage. As the OED admits, the word staircase is now (and has been for some time) used to mean ‘a flight of stairs or sometimes a whole series of flights of stairs with their supporting framework, balusters etc. ’ This book will follow the OED definition and the general understanding, that a staircase means the whole, made up of stairs, balusters, handrails, etc."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

03. "PAGE 194 STAIR -  12. 1993 HANDBOOK OF STAIRS catalogue of stair types:  e n gHsbtra n s latiojv Straight, single-run stair. Straight, single-run stair  with two flights of stairs  and intermittent landing. straight flights of stairs  connected by one central  landing. Three-run staircase with  one shared access flight, a  central landing and two  diverging exit flights of  stairs. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

04. "Other dimensions apply to curved stairs 16 . Other factors relevant to stair safety include lighting, slip resistance, single steps (most codes prohibit flights of fewer than three steps), handrails, and inability to detect the edge of the tread due to lack of contrast. REVIEW OF INTERNATIONAL CODE REQUIREMENTS FOR EGRESS STAIRS The building regulations summarized below are from countries that are widely disbursed and culturally different, and should be representative of any range of methods used to treat egress."[Bukowski, Richard W. *Emergency Egress From Buildings*. National Institute of Standards and Technology, 2009.]

05. "The so-called 7/11 stair geometry commonly required in US codes meets the relation 2R+G=635. Templer 15 summarizes a number of research studies of stair geometry and safety. Many such studies were conducted by observing people moving up or down stairs in buildings. Observations in subway or train stations at rush hours provided data for higher population densities."[Bukowski, Richard W. *Emergency Egress From Buildings*. National Institute of Standards and Technology, 2009.]

06. "Even for buildings less than 11 stories, occupants located closer to the stair may travel further in the stair than outside of it. Furthermore, because the stair shaft is required to be fire-rated and means of egress cannot have occupants move to a less safe location (NFPA 2009), the stair tends to be one of the last components in many complex egress systems."[Hoskins, Bryan L., and James A. Milke (auth.) *Study of Movement Speeds Down Stairs*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2013.]

07. "To transfer such a simple, historically  proven safety technique onto today's  stairs, seems impossible. Modern man  has become a slave to precision work  and automation. Contemporary  understanding of stair construction  requires the stair to be as dimensionally  accurate as possible. Even the human step has become  regulated. The model for it probably  originates in the pace set by the infantry. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

08. ". Flight ± the section of a ramp or stair running between landings with a continuous slope or series of steps. . Ramp ± a slope which is steeper than 1 in 20 intended to enable pedestrians or wheelchair users to get from one ¯oor level to another. . Stair ± steps and landings designed to enable pedestrians to get to different levels. . Private stairs ± stairs in or serving only one dwelling."[Blanc, Sylvia, and Alan Blanc *Stairs, Second Edition*. Architectural Press, 2001.]

09. "Applications for the copyright holder's written permission to reproduce any part of this publication should be addressed to the publishers British Library Cataloguing in Publication Data Blanc, Sylvia Stairs. ± 2nd ed. 1. Staircases 2. Stairs I. Title II. Blanc, Alan 721. 8 0 32 Library of Congress Cataloguing in Publication Data A catalogue record for this book is available from the Library of Congress ISBN 0 7506 4846 5 Printed and bound in Great Britain Contents Foreword vii 1 Introduction 1 2 Civic and public stairs 3 Commercial stairs 4 Domestic stairs 5 External stairs 5 29 47 70 6 Detailed construction: timber 92 7 Detailed construction: iron, steel and other metals 114 8 Concrete stairs 136 9 Stonework and composite construction 151 10 Design codes and procedures 11 Elevators and mechanical circulation 178 12 International case studies 13 Case studies in the UK Epilogue Index 230 231 200 213 158 This Page Intentionally Left Blank Foreword It is cause for wonderment that the seemingly mundane device de®ned as `a means of passing from one level to another by increments, more or less comforable ± the vertical measures known as risers and the horizontal goings as treads' has, through history, generated such richly charged cultural and technical invention."[Blanc, Sylvia, and Alan Blanc *Stairs, Second Edition*. Architectural Press, 2001.]

10. "This book focuses on the movement of building occupants on a critical egress component – the stair. The objective is to document the findings of previous literature regarding movement speeds down stairs. This will be accomplished by examining the assumptions, methods, and results of previous studies. The movement on stairs is critical for determining the amount of time required to safely evacuate the building."[Hoskins, Bryan L., and James A. Milke (auth.) *Study of Movement Speeds Down Stairs*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2013.]

11. "Stairs in Pathfinder Stairs are represented in Pathfinder through straight-run of steps. The model requires the input data about riser, tread and width (see Fig. 4. 21). In Pathfinder, the specified tread rise and run are the factors considered in the calculation, i. e. , the simulation is not dependent on the geometric slope of the stairs. Stairways denote areas where the maximum occupant speed is controlled by an alternate specific calculation."[Ronchi, Enrico, and Daniel Nilsson (auth.) *Assessment of Total Evacuation Systems for Tall Buildings*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2014.]

12. "34, para. 6, sent. 2 of the MBO specifies that stairs must be fitted with handrails on both sides and intermediate handrails where this is necessary for safety reasons. However, some federal state building regulations stipulate this for stairs in buildings with more than two dwellings reached via stairs. If stepless access (i. e. ramp or lift) to these dwellings is not possible, the use of the stairs by older occupants should be made safer and more comfortable by providing a handrail on both sides."[Heiss, Oliver *Barrier-Free Design*. Birkhäuser Architecture, 2010.]

13. "Also, comments were made by respondents with disabilities regarding insufficient training and ability of their assigned ‘buddy’ to help them during the incident. Only 3 % of the occupants used elevators for evacuation and the rest of the population (including occupants with disabilities) used the exit stairs for evacuation. Evacuation trends on stairs Most occupants used the exit stairs to evacuate the building during this fire incident."[Kuligowski, Erica D., and Bryan L. Hoskins *Occupant Behavior in a High-rise Office Building Fire*. National Institute of Standards and Technology, 2010.]

14. "4. 31 Histogram about the percentages of evacuees against the passage of time employing Pathfinder for all evacuation strategies metric, thus stair usage is distributed among the stairs. This is reflected in the fact that disproportional stair usages do not take place. The combined use of stairs and elevators (strategy 3) provides results approximately in the same range of Strategy 2 (see the green triangles in Fig."[Ronchi, Enrico, and Daniel Nilsson (auth.) *Assessment of Total Evacuation Systems for Tall Buildings*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2014.]

15. "Stairs, Newel Posts Balusters Stair Railing. STAIRS, NEWEL POSTS, BALUSTERS, STAIR RAILING, ETC. Fig. 1182 Fig. 1183 Fig. 1184 Fig. 1185 Fig. 1186 Fig. 1187 Fig. 1188 Fig. 1189 DIRECTIONS NECESSARY FOR ORDERING STAIRS AND STAIR RAILING. When a flight of stairs is wanted, we should know the height of story from floor to floor, width of joists in second story, width and run of stairs, the size of cylinder, style of base used in the hall, with rough sketch showing about the shape of stairs wanted."[Blumer, Kuhn Stair Co. *Victorian Woodturnings and Woodwork*. Dover Publications, 2012.]

16. "NEWEL The post, generally square in section, which receives the balustrade hand-rail at a change of direction of a stair or landing; the central post or pillar of a spiral stair, often consisting of a series of drums carved integrally with the stair treads themselves."[Chitham, Robert *The Classical Orders of Architecture,*. 2nd ed. Architectural Press, 2005.]

17. "High-Rise Response Objectives To develop and practice the procedures for attacking a fire in a high-rise. To establish the staffing required to carry out an attack on the top floor, using the stairs for access. To develop a time line to stage an attack team and a backup team to extinguish the fire. To practice the procedures for charging the standpipe system using a lowerfloor discharge connection."[Chatterton, Howard A. *Volunteer training drills : a year of weekly drills*. Saddle Brook, NJ: Fire Engineering Bk Dept, 1998.]

18. "Experience has shown during so many documented firefighter fatality incidents that Murphy’s Law, which simply states that anything that could go wrong…will go wrong, has happened repeatedly. Radio failure, burst hoselines, structural collapse, loss of accountability, and so many more problems have been known to occur when a firefighter was reported to be missing, lost, trapped, or when a victim called a Mayday. Using the earlier example of the firefighter trapped in the basement, if Plan A was to pull the victim up the stairs and it was found that the stairs were too weak to be used for the rescue, what is Plan B? Plan B can involve shoring the staircase from underneath, and a subsequent Plan C can involve using a ground ladder to bridge over the top of the stairs to distribute the weight."[Kolomay, Richard, and Robert Hoff *Firefighter Rescue And Survival*. Tulsa, Okla: PennWell, 2003.]

19. "Step The combination of tread and riser. Soffit The underside of a stair flight. May be plastered, boarded or left open. Spandrel The triangular space between the string and floor level. In domestic situations often forming an under-stairs cupboard."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

20. "Templer Code®, copyright © 2006 National Fire Protection Association observed the movement of many individuals up and down stairs of varying width and tread geometry, tabulating variables ranging from quantitative (speed, number of stumbles) to qualitative (perceived comfort)."[Bukowski, Richard W. *Emergency Egress From Buildings*. National Institute of Standards and Technology, 2009.]

21. "Spindle A term used to describe a turned baluster. Spiral A circular, helical or elliptical staircase. Other terms synonymous and in general usage include: vice; vis (French); winding; geometrical (when ‘cantilevered’); cockle. Staircase The whole ensemble including stair, balustrade and supporting newels, framework and any other integral structure. String The inclined side of a stair, usually composed of a board which supports the treads and risers."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

22. "Floor areas and occupancy rates provide the traf®c ®gures for lifts and stairs. Building Regulations allow a minimum of two steps, a single step being considered dangerous. Sizes for the former can be taken from installers' catalogues whilst the latter has to be approved by the ®re brigade or licensing authority on means of escape in case of ®re. The key dimensions relate to the maximum number of steps within an unbroken ¯ight and the number and width of stairs needed for escape purposes."[Blanc, Sylvia, and Alan Blanc *Stairs, Second Edition*. Architectural Press, 2001.]

23. "Open grid and chequer plate stairs are also used for industrial work. A higher standard of ®nish can be accommodated within metal trays or else laid on sheet steel formwork. The generic term is a `folded sheet stair' welded to plate or tubular strings. It is this type of industrialized steel stair that is widely adopted in commercial buildings, particularly with steel frame construction."[Blanc, Sylvia, and Alan Blanc *Stairs, Second Edition*. Architectural Press, 2001.]

24. "Friedrich M ieike, C o lle c ta n e e n  II, 1986, "Einleitung," "1. D efinition," 11. STAIR PAGE 127 Scalalogia (Latin Scalae = steps = stair) is a branch  of science that deals w ith the interd ep en dence of  hum ans and stairs. It em erged  from Building Research relating to stairs  and, am ongst other things, investigates the stepping  behavior of stair users, and its resulting consequences  for the construction of staircases of all kinds. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

25. ". Institutional and assembly stairs ± stairs serving places where a substantial number of people gather. . Other stairs ± stairs serving all other buildings apart from those referred to above. . Going ± the distance measured in plan across the tread less any overlap with the next tread above (Figure 10. 1a). . Rise ± the vertical distance between the top surfaces of two consecutive treads (Figure 10. 1a)."[Blanc, Sylvia, and Alan Blanc *Stairs, Second Edition*. Architectural Press, 2001.]