Created: 2025-11-15 23:29:24
Origin: suggested
Selected: The symbolic, as such untranslatable, while translating itself is hereby however not completely transferred into the technical. It differentiates itself in  relation to itself, i. e. it “specifies” itself in an operative model that remains  symbolic-referential. The relation of the place-value-like arrangement of the  symbolic denies itself to both itself and any definite model of its own function. This way only it becomes legible as the primary origin which enables  the origin of communication technology to be determined, i. e.[INPUT: Hovestadt and Bühlmann - 2014 - Domesticating symbols metalithikum. II.pdf]

--- Context List ---
01. "Rather, their  effectiveness deploys on a quasi-immaterial bed made of probabilistic  signal horizons of symbolic codings, through which the erstwhile physical substrate is now formally getting rendered, as “data” in the sense of  “informational constellation. ” In this regard, it is important to stress  that information technology today is no longer simply confined to elaborately controlling and investigating processes that may already be accessed through mechanical apparatus. Indeed, a movement is underway  toward learning how to grant the energetic constitution of our world an  own right, and form of address, amid its mechanical constraints."[INPUT: Hovestadt and Bühlmann - 2014 - Domesticating symbols metalithikum. II.pdf]

02. "The symbolic, as such untranslatable, while translating itself is hereby however not completely transferred into the technical. It differentiates itself in  relation to itself, i. e. it “specifies” itself in an operative model that remains  symbolic-referential. The relation of the place-value-like arrangement of the  symbolic denies itself to both itself and any definite model of its own function. This way only it becomes legible as the primary origin which enables  the origin of communication technology to be determined, i. e."[INPUT: Hovestadt and Bühlmann - 2014 - Domesticating symbols metalithikum. II.pdf]

03. "In other words, it deals with syntax – ‘The way in which words are put together grammatically to form phrases and sentences,’10 ‘or an orderly or systematic arrangement of parts or elements; a connected order or system of things. ’11 — 4 — DECODING THE MAJOR ARCANA This chapter is a guide to draw the reader’s attention to the detail in the illustrations with suggested commentary and interpretations of the symbolism."[Author, Thomas Saunders *The Authentic Tarot: Discovering Your Inner Self*. GB: Osprey Publishing Ltd, 2011.]

04. "However, one ought to keep in mind that often what is being described is not the frame as a whole but the keying it sustains. 4 Designs and Fabrications I Keying provides one basic way in which a strip of activity can be transformed, that is, serve as an item-by-item model for something else. Differently put, keyings represent a basic way in which activity is vulnerable. A second transformational vulnerability is now considered: fabrication."[Goffman, Erving *Frame Analysis. An Essay on the Organization of Experience*. Northeastern University Press, 1986.]

05. "It enables us to create a criticism which includes a sense of the particular thick text as an object positioned in the broader space of the generic megatext of which it is a part. It makes it possible to include in our sense of it its particular role in the development of the cascade of particular technical competences that were needful to its conception and making. It is also to regard obsessiveness about reading and understanding as in no way a bad thing, and to regard almost any sort of knowledge as potentially relevant."[Kaveney, Roz *From Alien to The Matrix: Reading Science Fiction Film*. I. B. Tauris, 2005.]

06. "The main interest with these  languages was to make available for easy application, as a kind of toolbox of “instruments” in coded “form,” the precise way of how a certain  organizational procedure needs to be set up in order to function well. Think of SAP,14 for example. The developments in this paradigm are  driven by the fact that every step of decision can thereby be “dispersed”  into constitutive procedures, and hence, an infinitesimal limberness  can be introduced into organizational forms."[INPUT: Hovestadt and Bühlmann - 2014 - Domesticating symbols metalithikum. II.pdf]

07. "Stuttgart, 1967). 118 • Chapter 2 hand, although they do show the correspondence with common usage that one would expect. In the Metaphysics we find more instructive evidence. In book 5, given over to lemmatic definitions of technical terms, Aristotle defines four uses of the designation “substance. ” The term can apply to a) an essence that is causal of a thing’s existence, as a soul is of an animal; b) a formal and universal definition; or c) a critical and limiting subpart that constitutes a sine qua non; but the most important of the definitions of substance, he says, is d) as a complete body, which he elaborates in this way: Simple bodies are called “substance”—for example earth, fire, water, and these sorts of things—and on the whole bodies and things constructed from them, both animals and demonic bodies, and their parts."[Struck, Peter T. *Divination and Human Nature: A Cognitive History of Intuition in Classical Antiquity*. Princeton University Press, 2016.]

08. "Zarathustra worries at this point about receivers being able to stand the signification of new knowledge, not in the least about how to transmit a message put in a different way. The philosopher wants to address individuals concerned with their collective becoming, not a population rounded up for yet another communications campaign or only wanting to hear the good news. This brings us to another of Simondon’s concepts, and one that functions along similar lines: transduction. Simondon uses it in a specific and very extensive way throughout his work."[Mellamphy, Dan, Nandita Biswas Mellamphy, Babette E. Babich, Horst Hutter, Manabrata Guha, Gary Shapiro, and Julian Reid et al. *The Digital Dionysus: Nietzsche and the Network-Centric Condition*. New York: Punctum Books, 2016.]

09. "This is also what characterizes elegance in design: the invention that's clever yet seems totally natural. Of course we know that they aren't really inevitable; it's human ingenuity that makes them seem that way, temporarily. Now consider the equation mentioned above. It's definitely surprising; you could work with the numbers e, and i for years, each in a dozen different contexts, without realizing they intersected in this particular way. Yet once you've seen the derivation, you feel that this equation really is inevitable, that this is the only way things could be."[Chiang, Ted *Stories of Your Life and Others*. Pan Macmillan, 2005.]

10. "Sauvé-Meyer has convincingly shown the many points in the sources at which the Stoic “chain” of fate is conceived of this way. 63 This is a system in which the horizontal interlinking of objects, each containing its forward-leaning seeds, will be the crucial way of envisioning sequences, and fate, which result from each immediately prior state. Each cause (that is, material body) fully embedded with all the other causes in the universe, will have its own internal seeds expressed through the active tenor of its pneuma."[Struck, Peter T. *Divination and Human Nature: A Cognitive History of Intuition in Classical Antiquity*. Princeton University Press, 2016.]

11. "By describing the relationship between shamans and their auxiliary spirits, represented by carved wooden anthropomorphic figures, it explores the link between art and ontology. The main argument is that by inquiring into the visual system of a society, into the way people perceive the world and make sense of it in their daily life, we can gain better insight into their ideas about the social, the cosmological, and the person. This has two main implications: first, visual art is treated in this work more as a category of experience, a way of knowing, than as an aesthetic category."[Fortis, Paolo *Kuna Art and Shamanism: An Ethnographic Approach*. University of Texas Press, 2013.]

12. "In The Timeless Way of Building (1979), Christopher Alexander perceptively identifies those features of this pre-industrial world which make it so appealing, which he terms its patterns created by the repetition of nearly identical units at human scale, units which none the less retain the subtle variations that can be found in the world of nature, as in the patterning of a field of wheat, a driving rain, or an ocean’s waves. Whether we look, for example, to Georgian or Regency London or to Second Empire Paris, we find in each what appears to be an organic consistency created by the repetition of elements in recognizable patterns, specific to each place."[Golding, Dr Sue, and Sue Golding *The Eight Technologies of Otherness*. Routledge, 1997.]

13. "In this way a great variety of 'mancies' were born (from lJ-CX'J't'€LCX divination). Each mancy draws its name from the instrument which lends to the diviner's imagination the material support which allows him to become fIXed and apply himself, instead of losing his way in vagueness. In this connection the every-day coffee ground has nothing grotesque about it, in as much as it is an instrument of divination. When scattered out on a plate the particles do indeed outline shapes and make up geometrical patterns that are extremely suggestive to a mind sensitive to the language of shapes."[Wirth, Oswald *The Tarot of the Magicians*. Reprint. Sam Weiser, 1990.]

14. "For them all forms became expressive, profound views being suggested by the simplest mark. It was in this way that they conceived the philosophic geometry beloved by Plato. The demonstration and the theorem were applied to abstract notions which are related to lines and figures. The dot, the cross, the circle, the triangle, etc. served as themes of meditation which developed the power of thought (in a different way) from the light reading which our minds are fed upon under the regime of the printed word."[Wirth, Oswald *The Tarot of the Magicians*. Reprint. Sam Weiser, 1990.]

15. "In this prior group of examples, divinatory language seems to Plato an appropriate way of describing our access to the Good. It will be Plato on Divination and Knowing • 59 oblique, not straightforward, more like the spotting of a resemblance, or a flash of insight, than a discursive calculus that moves from premises to conclusions. 19 These texts, which I have presented in a sequence of increasing weightiness of the objects known, might make tempting the conclusion that Plato uses divination to stand particularly for a way of knowing transcendent entities."[Struck, Peter T. *Divination and Human Nature: A Cognitive History of Intuition in Classical Antiquity*. Princeton University Press, 2016.]