Created: 2025-12-26 17:35:31
Origin: suggested
Selected: Chapter 8 investigates the relationship between structure and light, both natural and artificial. It illustrates structure’s dual roles, as both a source and modifier of light, and introduces a number of different strategies designers use to maximize the ingress of light into buildings. Chapter 9 reflects on the symbolic and representational roles structure plays.[Charleson, Andrew *Structure As Architecture: A Source Book For Architects And Structural Engineers*. Architectural Press, 2005.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Chapter 8 investigates the relationship between structure and light, both natural and artificial. It illustrates structure’s dual roles, as both a source and modifier of light, and introduces a number of different strategies designers use to maximize the ingress of light into buildings. Chapter 9 reflects on the symbolic and representational roles structure plays."[Charleson, Andrew *Structure As Architecture: A Source Book For Architects And Structural Engineers*. Architectural Press, 2005.]

02. "From this perspective, structure is potentially an important architectural element – both as a source of light, where light passes through it or illuminates it, and also as controller of how and where light enters a space. When stone and masonry load-bearing wall construction dominated previous periods of architectural history, openings for light could be considered the absence of structure."[Charleson, Andrew *Structure As Architecture: A Source Book For Architects And Structural Engineers*. Architectural Press, 2005.]

03. "Before the widespread use of frame construction, requirements for light, ventilation, and views outside the building were met with apertures, built as openings in a wall. The limits of these openings afﬁrmed the wall’s tectonic and theoretical primacy. The frame changed all of that: windows ceased being openings in walls and became walls themselves. But when this occurred, the wall’s non-load-bearing functions had to be reconsidered."[Leatherbarrow, David, and Mohsen Mostafavi *Surface Architecture*. 2002.]

04. "On the upper levels a clear distinction between walling on the exterior and structure on the interior is apparent; what appears on the outside as the structural frame represents the actual load-bearing elements hidden within, but corrected. This use of “structure” as image also makes the “inﬁll” panel ambiguous: it is both integral with a wall and contained within a frame, which also means it is both heavy and lightweight."[Leatherbarrow, David, and Mohsen Mostafavi *Surface Architecture*. 2002.]

05. "wall 2001 As thin as possible: fantasy of the  two-dimensional wall, sketched in 3D by  SANAA for the Kunstlinie Almere,  Netherlands. PAGE 3 WALL The meaning of the wall is just as diverse as the uses of vertical surface can be, but there are at least two essential  functions: providing structure and dividing space. The two can be separated, and thus the category of 'wall' divides into  two: the bearing wall, separating roof from ground; and the partition wall, organizing movement within the resulting  container. The former, it would seem, is as stable as the human need for shelter; the latter as changeable as our forms  of sociability. "[INPUT: wall.pdf]

06. "If the Glashaus is read in light of this painting, the aim of the colored prismatic glass wall, which wraps its prominent dome, was to remove any feeling of heaviness, of earthliness, by transforming the solid surfaces of the structure into a weightless layer of colored light, like a foil. However, the physical quality of the result is more than a thin, transparent diaphragm; rather, even in his pursuit of dematerialization, Taut favored thick, colored diaphanous walls that absorbed and stored light."[Coleman, Nathaniel *Imagining and Making the World: Reconsidering Architecture and Utopia*. Peter Lang, 2011.]

07. "To the interior, smooth wall inside-surfaces create pure interior space, while to the city, smooth wall outside-surfaces definite clear open spaces. So the designer abandoned all decoration on both sides of wall, try to create the atmosphere of pure spaces, in order to highlight the art works at the same time."[Yu, Jasmine *Museum Display Design*. Design Media Publishing Limited, 2012.]

08. "Functional Analysis of the ‘Wavy’ Enclosure Wall."[Wright, G.R.H. *Ancient Building Technology, Volume 3: Construction (2 vols.)*. Brill, 2009.]

09. "In addition to avoiding the overuse of artiﬁcial light and the heat generated by artiﬁcial light ﬁxtures, rooms with daylight also beneﬁt their occupants, who appreciate experiencing the dynamic qualities of natural light as it changes throughout the day. In general, light ﬁxtures are designed not to be noticed; however, designs that conceal the light source limit the perceptible qualities of ﬁre as light."[Yglesias, Caren *The Innovative Use of Materials in Architecture and Landscape Architecture: History, Theory and Performance*. McFarland, 2014.]

10. "Existing buildings being upgraded for more sustainable operations might consider adding bundles of ﬁberoptic cables rather than inserting light wells (with numerous associated structural complications) to bring natural daylight to interior spaces. In the landscape, minimizing artiﬁcial light spill reduces excessive light pollution and is a goal of sustainably designed projects that support the “night skies” movement (Thompson and Sorvig 2008)."[Yglesias, Caren *The Innovative Use of Materials in Architecture and Landscape Architecture: History, Theory and Performance*. McFarland, 2014.]

11. "In daylighting, this means that the light coming from the sky or the sun is reflected on a surface of high reflectivity like a wall, a windowsill, or a special redirecting device. In electrical lighting, the luminaires are suspended from the ceiling or wall mounted and distribute light mainly upward, so it gets reflected off the ceiling or the walls."[Ernest., Burden *Illustrated Dictionary of Architecture*. 2017.]

12. "The signiﬁcance of a wall’s threshold qualities notwithstanding, a wall is empirically also a screen, or cover; a function of particular importance to medieval and premodern urban Arab-Muslim culture, with its traditional enclaustration and veiling of women."[O'Meara, Simon *Space and Muslim Urban Life: At the Limits of the Labyrinth of Fez (Culture and Civilization in the Middle East)*. 2007.]

13. "Daylighting Using natural light in an interior space to substitute for artificial light. Daylighting is considered a sustainable building strategy in that it can reduce reliance on artificial light and reduce energy use in the process, and when well designed, it contributes to occupant comfort and performance. Common daylighting strategies include the proper orientation and placement of windows, use of light wells, light shafts or tubes, skylights, clerestory windows, light shelves, reflective surfaces, and shading, and the use of interior glazing to allow light into adjacent spaces."[Ernest., Burden *Illustrated Dictionary of Architecture*. 2017.]

14. "This introduces the broader subject of the connection between roof structure and wall structure."[Wright, G.R.H. *Ancient Building in South Syria and Palestine*. Leiden: Brill, 1985.]

15. "In place of this a bonding transverse “wall” (itself of two faces and a core) can be built across the structure—obviously such a device is more proper to “engineering” structures, where special strength and stability is required (e. g. dams). It should be noticed also that this transverse bonding not only ties the wall together, but it also compartmentalises the core and thus reduces its outward pressure on the wall face (ABADY IV 1987 pp."[Wright, G.R.H. *Ancient Building Technology, Volume 3: Construction (2 vols.)*. Brill, 2009.]

16. "This occurs when a window opening creates a divide within the wall section, similar to a control joint in a floor slab. As the wall shrinks, the wall section on either side of the opening behaves as unit. As the wall sections attempt to pull away from the opening, stress builds up along the precast lintel that is bridging the two wall sections. This condition results in horizontal friction or shearing of the mortar between the wall and the precast lintel."[de Leon, Diaz, and Alicia E *Forensic Engineering 2015 : performance of the built environment : proceedings of the Seventh Congress on Forensic Engineering, November 15-18, 2015, Miami, Florida*. American Society of Civil Engineers, 2015.]

17. "[21] Published in both of the existing monographs on the Krefeld houses, this view depicts the zigzagging exterior window wall that frames and captures the exterior like a pleated strip of ﬁlm. 22 A continuous folded plane, the exterior wall is comprised of impressively large, utterly transparent glass panes joined by slender white plaster strips that function not as bearing points, but as mere hinges at the folds, forming a boundary independent of any interior partitions."[Kleinman, Kent, and Leslie Van Duzer *Mies van der Rohe's Krefeld Villas*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2005.]

18. "Everything is pointed, and all the molding profiles match so that the entire structure is harmonious. At wall level the spaces between the skeleton are mostly filled with glass; up in the ceiling, the parts between the ribs are filled with stone. The resulting light-filled interior is enclosed in a structure of almost magical airiness. But there was a problem."[Wilkinson, Philip *50 Architecture Ideas You Really Need to Know*. Quercus Publishing Plc, 2010.]

19. "fiber-reinforced polymer brick 3D printed lattice wall . . . the demise of the wall  starts with the discovery  of flexibility. . . partition 1 9 2 2 1922 Padiglione Centrale,  Venice Biennale. . . . anyone looking at a wall today looks at a riddle:  is it an immutable object -  of heft, solidity, weight -   or is it a provisional assembly that can be removed  or changed without particular effort? The deep  door here does not suggest an opening in solid  masonry, but on opportunistic interruption of the wall  plane to accommodate exit-rules rather than  architectural incentive. . . "[INPUT: wall.pdf]

20. "The gradients occur across the wall between the insulation dry by allowing moisture to evap- building consists of a black base of integrally two zones. Adequate wall cavity airflow and orate. Mechanical shades located in this colored concrete supporting a monolithic drainage are not provided and the interior of cavity in front of any windows further reduce block enveloped by opaque, transparent, the wall is inaccessible."[Killory, Christine *Details in Contemporary Architecture*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2007.]

21. "• At the fa£ade of one building, there was a veneer-clad wing wall above a fourth floor terrace area. This wall was topped with coping stones, with the top of the wall angled downward toward the exterior. There was a concrete beam running along the top of the wall (below the coping and veneer). A coping stone was removed from this wall to observe the anchorage of the coping and the condition at the wall cavity."[(Editors), Paul A. Bosela 7 Norbert J. Delatte *Forensic engineering : proceedings of the 4th congress, October 6-9, 2006, Cleveland, Ohio*. Cleveland, Ohio), Reston, Va: American Society of Civil Engineers, 2007.]

22. "between the outer wall and the inner struc- ally without compromising adjacent portions There are two frit patterns on the inner and tural wall where the thermal barrier is of the exterior wall assembly. Wall cavities outer skins allowing varying levels of light located. This buffer zone helps to moderate remain dry, insulated, and corrosion free."[Killory, Christine *Details in Contemporary Architecture*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2007.]

23. "Yet, wall C integrates the remains of a remarkable, obviously even earlier structure (Wall C1), most of which had already been destroyed or dismantled when the construction of wall C was started. Here, we get a glimpse of the concepts of a medieval “building in the historical context”. 3. 2 Definition of structural criteria for masonry of wall C1 The question of when Wall C1 could have been built cannot be answered in Baku itself, since no directly comparable constructions or construction techniques have been discovered here so far."[Le Brun, Nicolas *Building knowledge, construction history. 2 vols. Proceedings of the 6th International Congress on Construction History (6ICCH 2018), July 9-13, 2018, Brussels, Belgium*. London: CRC Press (U.K.), 2018.]

24. "II) WALLS A) Function 1. Barrier Wall 2. Terrace Wall 3· "House" Wall B) Structure I. Stone: Megalithic, Rubble, Ashlar, Ashlar framed rubble SHECHEM cobble stiffening wood reinforcing unclear functional analysis jERICHO 392 CONSTRUCTION 2. Mudbrick: Bonding, reinforcing, combination with stone 3· Wood: Reinforcing,framing, cladding C) Aspect I. Vertical Articulation: foot, socle, face, crowning 2."[Wright, G.R.H. *Ancient Building in South Syria and Palestine*. Leiden: Brill, 1985.]

25. "This research tries to obtain a reliable evaluation from an experimental programme on masonry wall components and wall system. The structural behaviour of the stone masonry wall depends very much on the mechanical characteristics of its components, namely the stone and the mortar. Furthermore, the structure of the wall such as single leaf, double-leaf of cavity wall with rubble infill significantly affects its load capacity and failure mode."[(ed.), S. Syngellakis *Heritage Masonry: Materials and Structures*. WIT Press, 2013.]