Created: 2025-11-08 12:12:22
Origin: searched
Selected: Researchers of both sub-disciplines recognise the central function of language-in-use in the formulation of theoretical assumptions in semantics, syntax, pragmatics and discourse (Langacker 1999: chapters 4 and 12; 2002; McEnery and Wilson 2001: chapter 4). The inductive process of abstraction commonly used in building up a theory should be based on conventionalised subtleties of language-in-use directly observed from real-life language data as those that can be found in a corpus. Thus, there is a close link between our cognition of specific utterances on specific occasions of use studied by cognitive linguists and quantitative methods used in the analysis of naturally occurring data that are typically considered appropriate in corpus linguistics.[Li, Thomas Fuyin *Compendium of Cognitive Linguistics Research*. Nova Science Publishers, Inc., 2014.]

--- Context List ---
01. "On the other hand, the second usage-based property concurs with Sinclair‘s pioneering lexical model (see section 4), in which a lexical item is examined in its context and therefore its meaning is manifested in its use in communication. Despite the shared highlighting of frequency information in both corpus linguistics and cognitive linguistics, it is the former rather than the latter that aims to use corpus data to create a description of language as it is used in a particular register. Biber (1988)‘s seminal account of linguistic variation across speech and writing is a good example of this kind of study."[Li, Thomas Fuyin *Compendium of Cognitive Linguistics Research*. Nova Science Publishers, Inc., 2014.]

02. "In other words, corpus-based approaches rely on authentic data for analysis, as do usage-based approaches. Furthermore, corpus analysis adheres to the ‗principle of total accountability‘, that is, accounting for all the corpus instances of the linguistic phenomena under investigation (Leech 1992: 112), and thus it can provide compelling empirical evidence of language use – the first property of the usage-based model given above."[Li, Thomas Fuyin *Compendium of Cognitive Linguistics Research*. Nova Science Publishers, Inc., 2014.]

03. "Researchers of both sub-disciplines recognise the central function of language-in-use in the formulation of theoretical assumptions in semantics, syntax, pragmatics and discourse (Langacker 1999: chapters 4 and 12; 2002; McEnery and Wilson 2001: chapter 4). The inductive process of abstraction commonly used in building up a theory should be based on conventionalised subtleties of language-in-use directly observed from real-life language data as those that can be found in a corpus. Thus, there is a close link between our cognition of specific utterances on specific occasions of use studied by cognitive linguists and quantitative methods used in the analysis of naturally occurring data that are typically considered appropriate in corpus linguistics."[Li, Thomas Fuyin *Compendium of Cognitive Linguistics Research*. Nova Science Publishers, Inc., 2014.]

04. "1 M. Merleau-Ponty, La Prose du monde (Paris, 1969), p. 26. 1 Ibid. , p. 10. The literature which deals with the theory of linguistic models and with the discriminations to be made between formal and natural languages is large. Cf. I. I. Revzin, Models of Language (London, 1966), pp. 4–14; Y. Bar-Hillel, ‘Communication and Argumentation in Pragmatic Languages’ in Linguaggi nella società e nella tecnica (Milan, 1970) and S. K. Šaumjan on ‘Linguistic Models as Artificial Languages simulating Natural Languages’ in the same volume."[INPUT: Steiner__After_Babel_Aspects_of_Language_and_Translation.pdf]

05. "Casagrande and Hale (1967, 165-93) did a study of the semantic relationships which they found in their collection of Papago folk-definitions. The twelve relationships they identified and exemplified also appear in good illustrative sentences, as indicated in Bartholomew and Schoenhals (1983, 60-63). A somewhat different approach is that of Grimes et al. (1981). Grimes used lexical functions as proposed by Mel'chuk (1973) and developed a field technique for working with speakers of Huichol, a Uto-Aztecan language of northern Mexico, to explore those functions."[Kahane, Henry *Cultures, Ideologies and the Dictionary: Studies in Honor of Ladislav Zgusta*. Max Niemeyer Verlag GmbH & Co KG, 1995.]

06. "Individuals and professional groups could do the creation and unification of vocabulary (Jernudd et al. 1971:210). This is particularly true with the individuals who write and distribute different written materials to the community. These individuals include public figures such as broadcasters, preachers, teachers, writers, and the like. They can 'produce models for others to follow' (Aitchison, 1991, quoted in Temesgen 2001:10). Downes, (1998:37) also calls individuals such as editors, language scholars, dictionary makers, textbook producers and educationists 82 as a class of language guardians9."[Mekonnen., Hundie *Lexical Standardization In Oromo*. 2017.]

07. "Therefore by (3) the theory T , ¬A has a model. This model is a model of T but not a model of A. 2. 3. 2 Proving the Completeness Theorem We will prove the third formulation of the completeness theorem, restricting ourselves to the case of a finite or countable language. Let L = (S, F , P) be such a language and T a consistent theory in this language. We will build a model for this theory. The idea is to define the domain Ms as a set of closed terms of sort s, the function fˆ as the function that associates to the closed terms t1 , ."[(auth.), Gilles Dowek *Proofs and Algorithms: An Introduction to Logic and Computability*. Springer-Verlag London, 2011.]

08. "Lewandowska-Tomaszczyk, Barbara (1985) On semantic change in a dynamic model of language. In Fisiak, Jacek (ed. )Historical Semantics. Historical Word-Formation. Berlin: Mouton Gruyter. 297-323. (1987) Conceptual Analysis, Linguistic Meaning, and Verbal Interaction, t ó d í : Acta Universitatis Lodziensis. Lucy, John A. and Shweder, Richard A. (1979) Whorf and his critics: linguistic and nonlinguistic influences on color memory. In American Anthropologist, 81, 581-615. Whorf, Benjamin L. (1956) Language, Thought and Reality."[Kahane, Henry *Cultures, Ideologies and the Dictionary: Studies in Honor of Ladislav Zgusta*. Max Niemeyer Verlag GmbH & Co KG, 1995.]

09. "Based on the above mentioned criteria and methods, the data was analyzed and interpreted. 1. 8 Frame of Reference This section deals with the definitions, approaches of standardization and the relationships between language standardization and language planning to set the frame of this study. 1. 8. 1 Standardization defined The primary function of language is facilitating communication. Effective communication requires the uniform use of a language."[Mekonnen., Hundie *Lexical Standardization In Oromo*. 2017.]

10. "Sounds, while subtle, refined, and easily modifiable, are transitory. This defect is met by the system of written and printed words, appealing to the eye. Litera scripta manet [The written word remains]. Bearing in mind the intimate connection of meanings and signs (or language), we may note in more detail what language does (1) for specific meanings, and (2) for the organization of meanings. Language Selects, Preserves, and Applies Specific Meanings. In the case of specific meanings a verbal sign (a) selects, detaches, a meaning from what is otherwise a vague flux and blur; (b) retains, registers, stores that meaning; and (c) applies it, when needed, to the comprehension of other things."[Hutchins, Robert M., Mortimer J. Adler, and Fred Steffen *Gateway to the Great Books [10 Volume Set]*. William Benton, 1963.]

11. "I have been trying to state a rudimentary but decisive point: interlingual translation is the main concern of this book, but it is also a way in, an access to an inquiry into language itself. ‘Translation,’ properly understood, is a special case of the arc of communication which every successful speech-act closes within a given language. On the inter-lingual level, translation will pose concentrated, visibly intractable problems; but these same problems abound, at a more covert or conventionally neglected level, intra-lingually. The model ‘sender to receiver’ which represents any semiological and semantic process is ontologically equivalent to the model ‘source-language to receptor-language’ used in the theory of translation. In both schemes "[INPUT: Steiner__After_Babel_Aspects_of_Language_and_Translation.pdf]

12. "Language provides a form to our conceptualizations and each language uses a unique combination of morphological and syntactic tools to perform this task. Some of these tools can be shared by a number of different languages but a particular combination is singular and unique to a given code. It would be untenable to claim Worldview and Verbal Senses 235 that language predetermines our thinking, however the presence or absence of labels for specific concepts as well as the expression of messages by synthetic or analytic means do bring about different cognitive implications (cf."[Kahane, Henry *Cultures, Ideologies and the Dictionary: Studies in Honor of Ladislav Zgusta*. Max Niemeyer Verlag GmbH & Co KG, 1995.]

13. "1 -23, especially p. 3; and 'Of Time and the Null Individual', Journa l ofPhilosophy, 62 (1 965), pp. 723-35. For another, B unt, Mass Terms and Model-Theoretic Semantics, pp. 56-7. Journal of Symbolic Logic, IO The Null Set a role in mereology that corresponds to the role of the null set in set theory. The null individual is supposed to be part of everything whatever. So if we take the fusion of the null individual and something else, we just get the something else back again, because the null individual was part of it already."[Lewis, David K. *Parts of Classes*. Blackwell Pub, 1991.]

14. "1 For the most recent attempt to apply formal logic to vagueness, context dependence, metaphor, and polysemy in natural language, cf. M. J. Cresswell, Logics and Languages (London, 1973). Nothing in this acute treatment seems to overcome Wittgenstein’s admonition against the derivation of systematic logic from ordinary language or Tarski’s theorem that ‘there can be no general criterion of truth for sufficiently rich languages’—all natural languages being ‘sufficiendy rich’. SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY THE following is a check-list of material which the student of translation will find of particular use. It is set out chronologically, and begins with Schleiermacher’s essay of 1813. As is pointed out in Chapter Four, this text initiates the modern approach to translation as part of a larger theory of language and understanding. Works marked with an * themselves contain important bibliographies. "[INPUT: Steiner__After_Babel_Aspects_of_Language_and_Translation.pdf]

15. "Proof Let T be a consistent theory and U the theory built in Proposition 2. 5. We define the domain Ms to be the set of closed terms of sort s in the language L , the function fˆ to be the function associating to the closed terms t1 , . . . , tn the term f (t1 , . . . , tn ) and the function P̂ to be the function associating to t1 , . . . , tn the number 1 if the proposition P (t1 , . . . , tn ) is provable in U and 0 otherwise. Let A be a closed proposition. We show by induction over the structure of the proposition A that A is provable in U if and only if A is valid in this model."[(auth.), Gilles Dowek *Proofs and Algorithms: An Introduction to Logic and Computability*. Springer-Verlag London, 2011.]