Created: 2025-12-26 22:46:49
Origin: suggested
Selected: Three-Dimensional Reality This text has focused and will continue to focus on the development of floor plan solutions. Do good floor plans always make for well-designed interiors?Obviously not. Yet planners often have a strong inclination to get so involved in the space planning process and its two-dimensional, jigsaw-puzzle-like qualities that the resulting three-dimensional qualities of the space become an afterthought.[Karlen, Mark, and Rob Fleming *Space Planning Basics*. 4th ed. Wiley, 2016.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Three-Dimensional Reality This text has focused and will continue to focus on the development of floor plan solutions. Do good floor plans always make for well-designed interiors?Obviously not. Yet planners often have a strong inclination to get so involved in the space planning process and its two-dimensional, jigsaw-puzzle-like qualities that the resulting three-dimensional qualities of the space become an afterthought."[Karlen, Mark, and Rob Fleming *Space Planning Basics*. 4th ed. Wiley, 2016.]

02. "As you allocate and subdivide interior space, you determine the basic spatial and esthetic qualities of that interior environment, either consciously or unconsciously. There is a very strong tendency for space planners to get so involved with the jigsaw-puzzle-like qualities of the planning task that they give little priority to the three-dimensional experience of the people using the space."[Karlen, Mark, and Rob Fleming *Space Planning Basics*. 4th ed. Wiley, 2016.]

03. "FLOOR Infinitely harmless, the floor Is  obliged to offer Its occupants  stability -  yet receives from  Its users systematic harshness,  If not abuse, in return. k e lle r e a s t e r lin g FLOOR PAGE 1 floor . . . once a surface for symbolic expression -  defining the way  spaces are used, implying the 'rules of the game' -  floors in  the 20th century tended towards a purely Cartesian surface. . .  rational, undecorated, unloved, perfectly flat, ideally soundless-  simultaneous with our neglect of programmatic, symbolic,  and haptic potential, floor space became the dominant economic  measure of architectural space: real estate adopted a fetish  of the m2, masking the reality of the three-dimensional volume,  and the floor itself is typically a thick slab, sometimes a 'false  floor' containing mysteries similar to those of the ceiling. . ."[INPUT: floor.pdf]

04. "A folded white surface defines the space within the darker brick and concrete volume. This folded plane becomes reception desk, perimeter wall, colour bar, work station, retail and graphic display, storage and seating. Transparency and connection between spaces was important to the client. Glass walls and operable panels slide open to create larger rooms for events and shows."[Chang, Catherine *Beauty Salons*. Liaoning Science & Technology Publishing House, Profession Design Press, 2011.]

05. "The walls are a large “plane. ” The sofa is a large “plane. ” The floor coverings and floor are large planes. My apartment might be a fun example to analyze . . . Our dining room and living room have zany painted floors—a deep beigey color coupled with a crisp white to make a wild, but not too wild, checkerboard floor. The walls pull from the white in the floor—a quiet “plane” in contrast with the “pop” of the painted floors."[Salway, Christina, and Monica Pedersen *Home improvement projects for the busy & broke: how to get your $h!t together and live like an adult*. Skyhorse Publishing, 2016.]

06. "PAGE 2 FLOOR . . . staking the claim of civilization on  the raw ground, encoding usage and  assuming decoration, the floor then  accrues complexity in its section  while simplifying its surface details. . . FLOOR PAGE 3 relative floor International Space Station — Domino House — No Stop City, Continuous Monument — Floor Area Ratio (FAR) false floor — Raised floor systems "[INPUT: floor.pdf]

07. "The random of the facets is a sharp contrast with the environment, it reminds of the freedom of nature, while large wood walls structure the space into a spatial composition the reveals unexpected views and perspective as you walk through. The space seems to be created with three basic elements: water (glass), stone (concrete floor) and wood (walls)."[Chang, Catherine *Beauty Salons*. Liaoning Science & Technology Publishing House, Profession Design Press, 2011.]

08. "2. 1. Structure To provide a flat, horizontal surface on which desired human activities can take place, all buildings contain at least one floor. In primitive buildings, the ground may be used as the floor. In better buildings, the floor may be a deck laid on the ground or supported above ground on structural members, such as the joist indicated in Fig."[Merritt, Frederick S., and James Ambrose (auth.) *Building Engineering and Systems Design*. Springer US, 1989.]

09. "For examples, a single space could be bedroom, study room and parlour at the same time. The charm of the "mix and match" of functions lies in the relaxing atmosphere created in such a multi-functional space. Meanwhile, to some extent, such an unconventional space layout would likely free us from certain constraints. The space with a European style shown above is mainly used as a study room."[Du (Editor), Darren *New Art Deco Style*. Design Media Publishing Ltd, 2011.]

10. "The table and charts are usually computed by the zonal cavity method. In this method, a room is divided into three horizontal zones, called floor, ceiling and room cavities. 454 Building Engineering and Systems Design The effective reflectance of each cavity is then detennined from the reflectances of the floor and ceiling and from a factor called cavity ratio."[Merritt, Frederick S., and James Ambrose (auth.) *Building Engineering and Systems Design*. Springer US, 1989.]

11. "Another example of concealed storage is the grooved timber, lit up to highlight their contours and the bust by Ralph Brown. Assessing a space and planning the layout is something that has always come naturally to me because I find it very easy to visualize a room in three dimensions – a cuboid made up of six vertical and horizontal planes: four walls, a ceiling and a floor."[Hoppen, Kelly *House of Hoppen: A Retrospective*. Jacqui Small, 2016.]

12. "That said, it should be remembered that arbitrarily eliminating as many interior walls as possible will not necessarily result in a better space. While floor area and elbow room are inevitably gained, wall space is lost. This may affect the possibilities for furniture placement and storage options. Open-concept layouts are great so long as they truly correspond with the necessities at hand."[Shafer, Jay *The Small House Book*. Tumbleweed Tiny House, 2009.]

13. "At the waiting area, the wood floor pattern breaks the normal long-running board pattern with cross-stitched short boards slowing the visitor down. In the lounge area a brick floor with a simple running bond pattern define the informal dining area. At the kitchen visitors walk on an antiqued hexagonal brick floor. Even in the bathrooms, a carefully considered large stone floor pattern support a larger series of discrete experiences that work overall to quietly engage the visitor into quiet contemplation."[Du (Editor), Darren *New Art Deco Style*. Design Media Publishing Ltd, 2011.]

14. "Economy in space often prompts designers to explore the stacking of stairs so that a single shaft accommodates two flights one above the other. Typical applications are twin escape stairs or else the interlocking of dog-leg stairs in maisonette plans. Stairs constructed within solid shafts need more space at landings if furniture has to be manoeuvred through the space, a point that is critical in 'scissors'-type plans employed for maisonette construction."[Blanc, Alan *Internal Components*. Routledge, 1994.]

15. "“Thinking about how you move in and through a space is the key. ” Reorienting a layout can deliver great gains,suchascreatingadualuseforasingle room or maximising storage, says Sydney interior designer Natasha Levak. “With a clever floor plan, you can ensure no space is wasted and the general feeling of the interior becomes not only practical but aesthetically pleasing. ” Levak recently remodelled an Art Deco apartment in Sydney’s east."[*Australian House & Garden* 2017.]

16. "Avoiding visual rivalry, in turn, brings the illusion of height to a low-ceilinged room. Some argue, knowingly, that adding one-third to one-half wall color to white perceptibly elevates a ceiling to greater heights. Conversely, a ceiling painted the same color as the walls seemingly lowers the ceiling. So, too, does painting it darker than the walls. In spaces with sufficient light, a shade of white works well as a frame for contrasting walls."[Phillips, Betty Lou, and Don Piassick *The French room*. Layton, UT, United States., France: Gibbs-Smith, 2008.]

17. "(Don't forget to consider the wall space separating each room. )Jot down its measurement. Continue this procedure until the last room adjacent to the length of the wall in question is measured. Repeat this procedure to obtain the width of each room. Based on these measurements, you now can draw a simple to-scale floor plan. We suggest using a pencil as you might have to make changes."[Moran, Elizabeth, Master Joseph Yu, and Val Biktashev *The Complete Idiot's Guide to Feng Shui, Third Edition*. 3rd ed. New York: ALPHA, 2005.]

18. "Figure 4 shows that the expressions contained in the seismic provisions of the UBC 1997 and ASCE/SEI 7-10 to determine floor accelerations for the design of nonstructural components are representative of the floor acceleration envelope. The term Ai /Ag represents the amplification of the floor acceleration with respect to the peak ground acceleration, and the term hi /hr represents the floor height divided by the roof height."[Lynn, Abraham C., and Robert Reitherman *AEI 2011 : building integration solutions : proceedings of the 2011 Architectural Engineering National Conference, March 30-April 2, 2011 Oakland, California*. Oakland, Calif.), Reston, Va: American Society of Civil Engineers, 2011.]

19. "The flats have upper floors formed in pre-cast concrete. A concrete floor (and its floor finish) provides better fire protection and sound insulation than the timber floor shown above. When the planks have been laid they are grouted to fill any holes or gaps. A 75mm screed forms the base for the resilient chipboard/foam finishing layer. Because the concrete floor and applied screed will contain construction moisture they are separated from the floor decking by a polythene vapour control layer."[MBEng, Duncan Marshall BSc MCIOB, and Derek Worthing BSc Mphil MRICS *The Construction of Houses, Fourth Edition*. 4th ed. Estates Gazette Ltd, 2006.]

20. "For example, a marble runner within a wooden floor could form a ‘pathway’ through a hall and into a living space, perhaps continuing to the fireplace or window; or in a kitchen, dark wood set into a poured-resin floor could be echoed by a worktop or cabinets of the same wood. One of the joys of introducing contrasting runners is that it allows you to use luxury materials that in large quantities would blow the budget."[Hoppen, Kelly *House of Hoppen: A Retrospective*. Jacqui Small, 2016.]

21. "‘It enables us to navigate the junctions of public and private space, and somehow the plan eases movement within its clear circulation system. In practical terms, it means areas can be closed off and different points of access used. ’ This is necessary when people want to enter the gallery space run by Michael. This expansive, window-lined room faces the street, and here an atmosphere of containment has been engineered by raising the floor by 300mm and building a plywood insert which forms the floor, extensive shelving for books, walls and areas for the display of Michael’s highly curated objects and works of art."[McCartney, Karen *The Alchemy of Things: Interiors Shaped by Curious Minds*. Allen & Unwin, 2018.]

22. "In practice, ground-floor joists are often half the depth of those used in upper floors where, of course, such intermediate support is not possible. The plan (previous page) shows the ground-floor layout of a typical late-Victorian terraced house. The joists run from side to side (front to back is another option) and are supported on sleeper walls. The joists in the front room, therefore, are supported by the party walls, the sleeper wall and the internal loadbearing wall."[MBEng, Duncan Marshall BSc MCIOB, and Derek Worthing BSc Mphil MRICS *The Construction of Houses, Fourth Edition*. 4th ed. Estates Gazette Ltd, 2006.]

23. "The incorporation of the horizontal loadbearing elements (floor slabs) into the vertical ones (columns) is another distinguishing criterion."[Herzog, Thomas *Facade Construction Manual*. Birkhäuser Architecture, 2004.]

24. "A successful solution to this problem relies on co-operation between the different suppliers and users. Wall-to-wall floor finishes which layover all the panels can be used, but for deep raised floor systems, will not provide the intended ease of flexibility for access to the services below. Window sill and transom levels should be designed to suit the range of potential floor levels provided by the raised floor."[Blanc, Alan *Internal Components*. Routledge, 1994.]

25. "The general space in the studio is a shared space with other dancers as they move as individuals or in groups at the barre, in the center, and across the floor. Dancers spread out across the studio in their personal space to perform the center part of the class. Activity Determining Your Personal Space Stand in a place that has no barriers to movement."[Kassing, Gayle *Beginning ballet*. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2013.]