Created: 2025-12-19 15:35:24
Origin: suggested
Selected: In our terms, this is the distinction between interaction and correspondence – that is, between the dance of agency and the dance of animacy (Figure 7. 10). A straight line drawn between two points, as Simmel describes eye-to-eye contact, leaves each point motionless and unfeeling. Such contact may be rational, but it cannot be sentient. Like walkers who have turned in discord to square up to one another, or passengers in that kind of carriage known as the vis-à-vis, or indeed like Donne’s lovers as they hold hands, or even Moore’s Warrior, there is no way forward.[Ingold, Tim *Making: Anthropology, Archaeology, Art and Architecture*. Routledge, 2013.]

--- Context List ---
01. "In our terms, this is the distinction between interaction and correspondence – that is, between the dance of agency and the dance of animacy (Figure 7. 10). A straight line drawn between two points, as Simmel describes eye-to-eye contact, leaves each point motionless and unfeeling. Such contact may be rational, but it cannot be sentient. Like walkers who have turned in discord to square up to one another, or passengers in that kind of carriage known as the vis-à-vis, or indeed like Donne’s lovers as they hold hands, or even Moore’s Warrior, there is no way forward."[Ingold, Tim *Making: Anthropology, Archaeology, Art and Architecture*. Routledge, 2013.]

02. "The solution is to accept that names begin with transparencies (onomatopoeic, metaphorical, metonymical, synaesthetic [a structurally isomorphic similarity across the different senses: see pp. 77–9], or combinations of these, for one does not rule out another), and, when the word has been accepted into the language, the continued use renders the original transparency redundant and ‘custom’, convention, takes over. Conventional use, however, as we have abundantly seen by now, does not rule out different uses by different individuals."[Wright, Edmond *Narrative, Perception Language and Faith*. 2006.]

03. "But, on the other hand, a counter-argument might claim, speech may seem to be the more firmly tied to absence-the continuing fadings -away linked to temporal sequence-as the sounds dissipate in the air as they are spoken; further, the orphaned page, composed of visible (and invisible) traces left by an absent speaker, may neverthelesspersuade us of a spatial simultaneity among its words as it takes its place within the physically co-present book. Let me turn the matter around again by adding that even speech,considered as a sequenceof sounds, suggests a sensuouspresencein its auditory phenomena that belie our sense of them as fleeting transparencies."[Adams, Hazard, and Leroy Searle *Critical Theory Since 1965*. University Press of Florida, 1986.]

04. "Yet the relationship between the three is one of simultaneity. Speaking is a gesture that simultaneously captures and exhausts language. Language is captured in a shape; an utterance becomes its maximal foregroundedness. Simultaneously, with this most immediate actualization, the potentiality of language is partly suspended. This very event-sense, the expressed of an utterance-occupies the field of ontological constitution that emerges in the transition from worlds to words."[Dimitrova, Zornitsa *Literary Worlds and Deleuze: Expression as Mimesis and Event*. Lexington Books, 2016.]

05. ". . ]one would then have to bend [Derrida’s italics] into strange contortions what could no longer even simply be called logic or discourse. (D: 103, my italics) The understanding of the relation between text and non-text as an opposition must be derived from the nature of language itself since it is only within language that oppositions can exist. To understand the relation in this way is thus to appropriate it to one half of the opposition and to understand the other on the basis of the same, merely as its inverted ‘mirror image’."[Lewis, Michael *Derrida and Lacan: Another Writing*. Edinburgh University Press, 2008.]

06. "Further, lines of the same length in the picture may depict different lengths in the scene. Moreover, the relation 'above', in the picture, may represent the relation 'above', or 'further', or 'nearer', or 'further and higher', depending on whether bits of floor, wall, or ceiling are involved. This is connected with the fact that parts of an analogical representation may be highly ambiguous if considered in their own right. Only in the context of other parts is the ambiguity removed."[Sloman, Aaron *The computer revolution in philosophy: Philosophy, science, and models of mind*. Harvester Press, 1978.]

07. "Derrida often insists on his quasitranscendental signifiers retaining a reference to their old sense: ‘Not that the word “writing” has ceased to designate the signifier of the signifier, but it appears, strange as it may seem, that “signifier of the signifier” no longer defines accidental doubling and fallen secondarity’ (OG: 7). It only ‘appears’ so because a closer look reveals that writing remains locked within a system of oppositions: as a signifier defined by difference and opposition it cannot not be."[Lewis, Michael *Derrida and Lacan: Another Writing*. Edinburgh University Press, 2008.]

08. "The notion of highly specified and determined spaces or capsules and their loosely defined relations has the intention of permitting to compose and recompose their configuration, affecting the overall structure but leaving its order untouched (jones 2006). This could be interpreted as a kind of programmatic modularity (jones 2006), producing adaptable or resilient assemblages and allowing to understand space no longer in terms of static places but as a complex condition. [figure 09] 08 09 Function in architecture can no longer be thought of in the same way as it used to before the informational turn (BÜHLMANN 2010)."[Hovestadt, Ludger, and Vera Buhlmann *EigenArchitecture*. Ambra Verlag, 2013.]

09. "This determined and fixed way of presenting things happens in our everydayness. If one attempts to describe the reality, one cannot do it without describing it in a language (Putnam 1992: 123), and thus, we will be forced to acknowledge the plurality of language games. Let us remember that no language is exempt from context sensitivity (Putnam 2001: 460–461) and personal colouring of one’s own perception. When one tries to speak of the real or the ultimate, it is only the perception of the person concerned."[(auth.), C. D. Sebastian *The Cloud of Nothingness: The Negative Way in Nagarjuna and John of the Cross*. Springer India, 2016.]

10. "My design is, of course, to argue for the concept of the poem as "secular" symbolic form, identifying language fundamentally with poetry, but recognizing a progression of antimythical emanations from it. In this, I seem to be like the phenomenologists, but my conception of language as creative,as I shall try to show, differs from their concept of all language as hermeneutic. At the same time, I am not prepared to claim any absolute fissure between poetic language and any such language as may be set up in opposition to it."[Adams, Hazard, and Leroy Searle *Critical Theory Since 1965*. University Press of Florida, 1986.]

11. "But for this to happen, humans must first open themselves to the essence of technology. We humans are not capable of essential resistance to the current desolate epoch of being. But at least we can think, and thinking is the most authentic form of acting. This requires a new and special relation to language. Without such a relation to language, everything remains an aimless deliberation about one topic or another. Language is not simply the expression of thoughts that already exist in our minds beforehand."[Harman, Graham *Heidegger Explained: From Phenomenon to Thing (Ideas Explained)*. Open Court, 2007.]

12. "Buildings that consist of a number of spaces, and have corresponding sculpture, may be interpreted as a matrix of strategically positioned images. Within such a matrix, any understanding of the patterning of iconographic themes assists in establishing and cementing hierarchical relationships among its occupants (Gilchrist 1994: 151–152). Gilchrist also argues that a particular sculpture may have female associations."[Parmington, Alexander *Space and Sculpture in the Classic Maya City*. Cambridge University Press, 2011.]

13. "This transition from the heights of language toward the surface of sense in its capacity as an expressive plane can also be articulated through the lens of Agamben's distinction between phone and logos, voice and language. Here phone stands for the sheer expressive quality of language. Phone involves the kind of language that suspends matters of signification. Whereas this expressivity is the very condition for the emergence of language, it, just like sense, cannot be extracted and tackled individually in the flux of speech."[Dimitrova, Zornitsa *Literary Worlds and Deleuze: Expression as Mimesis and Event*. Lexington Books, 2016.]

14. "We may of the caesura' function the in unequal the of ion distribut formal purely this as time (DR 89). Propres (Paris: Gal ilee, 3 Emanuel Levinas, 'Philosophie comme transcendance,' in Noms 1987). or 'differen ce i" 4 For example. in Bergsonism ([ 1966]1988) this fundamenral duality, berween division an Bergsoni the into inquiry s kind ' (Bergson), motivates Deleuze' e in memory matter and memory; thus, the importance he places upo n the differenc which is not equal to the difference in perception."[Lambert, Gregg *Non-Philosophy of Gilles Deleuze*. The Athlone Press, 2002.]

15. "One way of trying to rethink this separation is to venture into the artistic in one’s philosophising – whether in the form of writing, speaking or singing. Another is, conversely, to reflect the philosophical character of what is standardly considered, more or less exclusively, to be art. In the next chapter, ‘Wittgenstein, Verbal Creativity and the Expansion of Artistic Style’, Garry Hagberg takes up another common misreading of Wittgenstein on the creativity of language, according to that on Wittgenstein’s conception of language we as language-users are trapped within existing language-games without any opportunity for linguistic creativity."[Grève, Sebastian Sunday, and Jakub Mácha (eds.) *Wittgenstein and the Creativity of Language*. Palgrave Macmillan UK, 2016.]