Created: 2025-11-12 14:40:17
Origin: suggested
Selected: The process of symbolic representation involves a ‘double function’. That is, Kant says, reflective judgment first must find the aesthetic idea (the concept of a sensible object that will serve as the rule or guide for reflection) and second, it must transfer the rule for reflecting upon that manifold sensible intuition to reflection upon the rational idea. The resulting ref lection does not of course, determine the rational idea, bringing the object of that idea into existence, but it does represent it in sensibility in a variety of new ways.[Huehn, Helmut *Symbol and Intuition: Comparative Studies in Kantian and Romantic-period Aesthetics*. Routledge, 2013.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Yet, just as a body may in its own material mind visualize, draw a concept of an incident that has happened in time, so may the body in spirit and in spiritual mind project itself, be conscious of elements, be conscious of form, by and through spirit mind — as patterned in a conscious mind. Mind, then, becomes as a stream, with its upper and lower stratum, with that which moves swiftly or that which is resting upon either spirit or physical being. These come, then, as flashes to a conscious mind. They may be gradually sustained; just as mind may be projected."[compiled, and published by B. Ernest Frejer. *The Edgar Cayce companion a comprehensive treatise of the Edgar Cayce readings*. 1995.]

02. "The process of symbolic representation involves a ‘double function’. That is, Kant says, reflective judgment first must find the aesthetic idea (the concept of a sensible object that will serve as the rule or guide for reflection) and second, it must transfer the rule for reflecting upon that manifold sensible intuition to reflection upon the rational idea. The resulting ref lection does not of course, determine the rational idea, bringing the object of that idea into existence, but it does represent it in sensibility in a variety of new ways."[Huehn, Helmut *Symbol and Intuition: Comparative Studies in Kantian and Romantic-period Aesthetics*. Routledge, 2013.]

03. "Indeed, as we have seen from 6. 9 [9]. 3. 1-6, Form is not for itself form, but only for us. Thus also the One is not an intelligible object in itself, but only for another 7* viz. Intellect. We have seen that the human soul may return to the One, her creator, in entering upon that silence and abiding that precedes the creation and must, if it is to be enjoyed, be seen without reference to the creation."[Schroeder, Frederic M. *Form and Transformation: A Study in the Philosophy of Plotinus (McGill-Queen's Studies in the History of Ideas)*. McGill-Queen's University Press, 1992.]

04. "The three activities are strictly simultaneous and have only incommensurable relationships. The creation of concepts has no other limit than the plane · they happen to populate; but the plane itself is limitless, and its layout only conforms to the concepts to be created that it must connect up, or to the personae to be invented that it must maintain. It is as in painting: there is a taste according to which even monsters and dwarves must be well made, which does not mean insipid but that their irregular contours are in keeping with a skin texture or with a background of the earth as germinal substance with which they seem to fit."[Deleuze, Gilles, Felix Guattari, Hugh Tomlinson, and Graham Burchell *What Is Philosophy?*. Columbia University Press, 1996.]

05. "For as Kant himself observes, this shift or inversion allows us to discern how it is possible for something to be given in advance. Yet if the world is given in advance, then there is no longer any need to consult the world or objects . . . [P]hilosophy, at this point, becomes self-reflexive, interrogating not being or the world, but interrogating rather the mind that regards the world."[Hayler, Matt *Challenging the Phenomena of Technology: Embodiment, Expertise, and Evolved Knowledge*. Palgrave Macmillan, 2015.]

06. "Prior to Kant, most thinkers believed that the mind, in knowing, conformed to objects: that the ideas of the mind took on the INTRODUCTION 777 “shape” of the world outside the mind. Kant argued instead that objects conform to the mind: that how one experiences the world is a result of the way the mind operates. Knowledge is a result of human understanding applied to sense experience. Space and time are two ways the mind operates. They are not “objects” in the world, derived from sense experience; rather, they are the precondition for our having sense-experience at all: They are the a priori (meaning “known independently of sense perceptions,” “indubitable”) foundations of sensibility."[Baird, Forrest E. *Philosophic Classics: From Plato to Derrida*. 6th ed. Routledge, 2016.]

07. "A mind as such, even if it could entertain a thought or register a sense datum, could never encounter a world, which is why, as Merleau-Ponty says, “we cannot imagine how a mind could paint” (Œ, p. 16/162/123). Painting needs the body just as perception itself does: not as its external instrument or vehicle, but as its very manifestation in the world."[Crowell, Steven *The Cambridge companion to existentialism*. 3rd printing. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2013.]

08. "The ex-positing that is the work of art is a reforging of the world as extension (again in agonistie relation to world as concentration), thus creating or ex-positing both 'intimacy and withdrawal' of muItiply-sensed and sensing bodies in a singular plural world (C, 33). In sum, transimmanence names within Nancy's project the dynamie, ceaselessly flowing sense of the world, whieh evolves and revolves into ever more textured and artfully ex-posited complexity. This is also a 'revoIt of bodies' toward freedam (C, 101)."[Gratton, Peter, and Marie-Eve Morin *The Nancy Dictionary*. Edinburgh University Press, 2015.]

09. ""- LAMiI. i'RroN; PapuW. 1· ·istr'Ono;;;-:--- -"···~··~· I need Rcarcely say that these considerations about form and colour are in no sense meant to apply to artistic realism. It is obvious that art must accept the finality of both form and cjkur. The facts are only stated to form arguments against the s]. 4iritual and mental realisms of the world-arguments borrowed from the natural world of 1>henomena, often spoken of as real. I . / . '. • THE ILLUSION OF REALISM I 3I t,. esmal a!ld delusive world."[Harrison, Clifford *Notes on The Margins: Being Suggestions of Thought and Enquiry*. George Redway, London, 1897.]

10. "On the other hand, «a mind-gifted being does not simply belong to the world; he possesses one. And it is in this world that everything takes on a perspectival and partial meaning, but still a meaning. In this way it is possible to distinguish what exists without meaning in the reality of the world and what in the mind is the bearer of meaning. An artifact is nothing but the projection of parts of the world of the one who has thought it. Therefore, a project and the object that derives from it, are a 216 A. Marotta and M. Pavignano transmission of thoughts between the designer and the user, or who simply perceives it» (Buiatti and Vannoni 2008, 165)."[Marcos, Carlos L. *Graphic Imprints*. Springer International Publishing, 2019.]

11. "The ground has come up to the surface, fills it with its light and breathes life into it. But in The Turkish Bath the effect of distance is a perspective of mirage the front seems to recede towards the background, but the eye loses its way, we are in a world oitrompe-Vml, the abstract world of images in a looking glass. We have noted the presence of a mirror in several portraits. Of interest in this context is Ingres' tendency to give his pictures, not the usual rectangular or square shape, like a window opening on the outside world, but oval or circular forms, assimilating the picture to a mirror hanging on the wall, enclosing an image trapped in it: that of the room in which an exquisitely dressed woman is held captive for eternity."[Gaetan., Picon *Ingres*. 2017.]

12. "And now we come to the other side o f the picture. This ideal clear-sightedness o f the spiritual eye, in seeing behind the various processes o f physical nature, is due exclusively to the fact that the nature o f the physical world in this case is something that is fashioned by the mind o f the observer him self. As long as this world o f his intuitive construction remains a hypothetical world, the creator has fu ll knowledge o f it, and fu ll dominion over it and can shape it what way he w ill; because as far as concerns reality it has as yet no value."[Planck, Max *Where Is Science Going?*. Planck Philosophical Essays in English P2P Custom Ed V4 [UL]. W. W. Norton, 1932.]

13. "But for lack of such a method, because of isolation from em- and instrumental use, the results of psychological inquiry were conceived to form a separate and isolated mental world in and of itself, self-sufficient and Since the psychological movement necesself-enclosed. coincided with that which set up physical objects as sarily correspondingly complete and self-enclosed, there resulted that dualism of mind and matter, of a physical and a pirical origin psychical world, which from the day of Descartes to the formulation of philosophical present dominates the problems."[Dewey, John *Experience and nature*. George Allen & Unwin, 1929.]

14. "The Spanish painter, Goya once wrote: 'In nature color exists no more than line,- there is only light and shade. '31 Out of this 'light and shade', prakrti produces the world of form and color. Consciousness or puru$a, however, is neither brain nor mind, form nor color. It is both the recognizing of brain and mind and the recognizing that it is neither. The evolving material world is like a three-stringed instrument upon which a melody is played that harmonizes the positions on each string with one another, but never abandons or neglects any string entirely."[(auth.), Walter Benesch *An Introduction to Comparative Philosophy: A Travel Guide to Philosophical Space*. Palgrave Macmillan UK, 1997.]

15. "Others argue that rather than demonstrating the truth of Platonic idealism, or marking the completion of the Cartesian project of separating the mind from the body, virtual reality instead illustrates the inseparability of mind from body and the importance of embodiment for all forms of human experience and knowledge. After all, even in the noncorporeal world of virtual reality, virtual bodies had to be imported, re-created, and imposed in order to allow for human interaction with this new virtual world."[Floridi, Luciano *The Blackwell Guide to the Philosophy of Computing and Information (Blackwell Philosophy Guides)*. Wiley-Blackwell, 2003.]