Created: 2025-11-16 20:11:37
Origin: searched
Selected: But it does not only delight the ear. In classical Chinese, compound ideographs are combined to create words. Thus two ideographs meaning ‘tree’, placed side by side, mean a grove, while three, two above and From Vegas to Vega: American Moon 221 one below, mean a forest. The ideograph for ‘sun’ placed next to the ideograph for ‘moon’ means bright. This writing system allows the poet to play with a second layer of meaning through visual associations, and Li Po (or Pai) was a master of such subtleties.[Attlee, James *Nocturne: A Journey in Search of Moonlight*. University Of Chicago Press, 2011.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Alberti writes at some length about the three principal means, the third being  the harmonic (or ‘musical’) mean, in De re aedificatoria, within the context of three-dimensional  composition. At the beginning of the discussion, Alberti states that the rules for composition of  means ‘are many and varied, but the wise use three principal methods, whose object is to find, given  two other numbers, an intermediate one, which will correspond to the other two by a fixed rule, or, to  put it another way, by a family relationship’ [Alberti 1988: 308 (IX, vi)]."[INPUT: Williams et al. - 2010 - The Mathematical Works of Leon Battista Alberti.pdf]

02. "There is in any case one observation that has not yet been made and which  I think is worth making, which is that I have observed that a vowel, within a single word,  can be followed by another without their being any consonant between them. Most of the  time a single consonant is inserted between two vowels in the same word, fairly often two,  rarely three, and even rarer still, four."[INPUT: Williams et al. - 2010 - The Mathematical Works of Leon Battista Alberti.pdf]

03. "A day is naturally divided into morning, afternoon and evening. To a simple-minded creature the earth consists of land, water and sky (air); it is inhabited by men, animals and things. In Germanie mythology the world is divided into three parts, Heaven above, the middle earth and the underworld. Man usually sees three generations of his own family. The number three is applied in all sorts of ways: three different ingredients constitute the remedy; a drink or salve is applied three times a day, or for three days; charms are sung three times; three different charms are sung; three Masses are said; three times the magician must spit; three times he must worship the sun; he must boil the ingredients three times; etc."[(auth.), Dr. G. Storms *Anglo-Saxon Magic*. Springer Netherlands, 1948.]

04. "In such cases often a short etymological explanation is added in order to make users aware of the fact. Note that this did not affect the placing of these characters within the CCD, as 爿 and 黑 are to be considered as radicals and 犬 as series header. It is also interesting to note that in standard Chinese dictionaries 爿 and 黑 also function as radicals in respect to these characters. d) two meaning elements In quite a number of cases neither part indicates the sound, but the character is a compound ideograph; in other words, it has two meaning elements."[Van Amstel, Adrian *Chinese Character Dictionary: A New Approach to Arranging, Explaining and Looking Up Chinese Characters*. Paperback. Createspace Independent Publishing Platform, 2016.]

05. "But this view of transformation is more geometrical than might be desirable. Our purpose often will not be to learn how one strip could be generated from another by the application of translation rules, but rather how two similar strips were both generated from a common model and differ from each other in certain systematic ways. One might find it reasonable to speak of two performances of a play given by the same company on two successive nights, or two readings of the same part given by two different actors, or two varieties of American speech-male and female-and feel it awkward to speak of one version being a keying of another."[Goffman, Erving *Frame Analysis. An Essay on the Organization of Experience*. Northeastern University Press, 1986.]

06. "In the middle is 口, an object. Combined meaning: two men pulling at the same object in contrary directions. Now written 違. measuring circumference with one wei equal to a) a cylinder that can be encompassed by two hands b) a cylinder that can be encompassed by two arms 韋 [韦] wéi 諱 [讳] huì 緯 [纬] wĕi 闈 [闱] wéi 韋 1. (lit. )leather 2. leather belt or string 3. short for ～伯 wéibó (phys. )weber 4. a surname 1. weft; woof (～紗 wĕishā) 2. (geog. )latitude (北～ bĕiwĕi north latitude) 煒 [炜] wĕi 幃 [帏] wéi (lit. )"[Van Amstel, Adrian *Chinese Character Dictionary: A New Approach to Arranging, Explaining and Looking Up Chinese Characters*. Paperback. Createspace Independent Publishing Platform, 2016.]

07. "A child can hold a bright green plastic number 3 in his hand but he is not holding three itself; three 22 How to Be an Existentialist itself is not green and plastic. Surely, that green plastic thing in his little hand is only a symbol of the abstract idea or concept of three, a thought that is the same for all thinking creatures anywhere in the universe whether they symbolize three as trois, 3 or ---. And the same can be said for other mathematical symbols, +, –, = and so on. The = sign does not indicate a thing called equivalence that you can hold in your hand, it indicates a relationship between two or more things ."[Cox, Gary *How to Be an Existentialist or How to Get Real, Get a Grip and Stop Making Excuses*. Continuum, 2009.]

08. "Again, this duality of image is fostered in the interest of sustaining continuity, namely, a story line that can be followed continuously by the audience. Similarly, as Wayne C. Booth argues, if one char- 236 FRAME ANALYSIS the two protagonists seem to be speaking directly to each other at close quarters. When three persons are present, then another resource becomes available-collusive communication-and its use tends to supplant the other two devices."[Goffman, Erving *Frame Analysis. An Essay on the Organization of Experience*. Northeastern University Press, 1986.]

09. "In science, this concept of perfecísti separationem is a critical idea for three-dimensional space and is the model for the spiritual analogy. In mathematics, one way of viewing three-dimensional space is through linear algebra in which the concept of independence is crucial. Space has three dimensions because length is independent of width or depth. According to the technical language of linear algebra, space is three-dimensional because every point in space can be described by a linear combination of three independent vectors."[Gunther, J. Daniel *The Angel & The Abyss: The Inward Journey, Books II & III: 2-3*. Kindle Edition. Ibis Press, 2014.]

10. "Such is the divine ideal in the three worlds: three triangles which are as one triangle, three complete ideals, three complete and absolute conceptions of the One God, three in one, and three in each of the Triads, nine and one; the circle, and the axis around which the circle revolves; the essence and the existence of the two hieroglyphic signs of number, of the decad, 1O,~. The Volatile and the Fixed, the moveable and the stable, Form variable to infinity, and Being unchangeable in its essence, are the eternal balance of life."[Gilbert, R. A. *The Magical Mason: Forgotten Hermetic Writings of William Wynn Westcott, Physician and Magus (Roots of the Golden Dawn Series)*. Aquarian Pr, 1983.]

11. "We cannot represent all of three-space in one plane, for obvious reasons, but suppose that we try to represent in two planes simultaneously, and then superpose one plane on the other. A point in three-space will then be represented by two points in the plane. Clearly these must be connected in some definite way, for the points in three- space depend on three independent parameters, while two points in the plane depend on four."[Coolidge, Julian Lowell, and Jeremy Gray *The mathematics of great amateurs*. 2nd ed. Oxford :, New York: Clarendon Press; Oxford University Press, 1990.]

12. "I now come to the use of the numeral letters, of which is nothing <more> admirable.  XVI  The numeral letters are, as I said, the lower-case letters that correspond to the four  numbers of the fixed circle above. The numbers, combined in groups of two, three or four,  three hundred thirty-six whole phrases determined at will.   These numeral letters, when paired, say that ps corresponds to 12 and pf to 13, and with  other similar pairings that can for constructed with these four numerals, indicate sixteen  phrases. If instead these same numbers are combined into groups of three, say psf signifies  123 and sfp 231, sixty-four phrases can be expressed. With combinations of four numerals,  where sfkp is equivalent to 2341 or fpsk corresponds to 3124, and similar combinations,  256 whole phrases can be expressed. The total sum of whole phrases is 336. Now we shall  show how these numeral letters are used.  "[INPUT: Williams et al. - 2010 - The Mathematical Works of Leon Battista Alberti.pdf]

13. "Often in mythology there is one figure accompanied by two acolytes (followers): Mithras and the Dadophores, Christ between the two thieves, and so on. Such triadic mythological formations stand for the oneness and its polarity, the one thing which unites, and the opposites as the two poles between which the uniting center appears. A certain difference has to be made between three things of the same kind, or a group of three where the one in the middle is really the whole thing and the two opposites are represented as a kind of illustration of what is within, of that wholeness."[von Franz, Marie-Louise, and Kendra Crossen *The Interpretation of Fairy Tales*. Revised, Subsequent. Shambhala, 1996.]

14. "But it does not only delight the ear. In classical Chinese, compound ideographs are combined to create words. Thus two ideographs meaning ‘tree’, placed side by side, mean a grove, while three, two above and From Vegas to Vega: American Moon 221 one below, mean a forest. The ideograph for ‘sun’ placed next to the ideograph for ‘moon’ means bright. This writing system allows the poet to play with a second layer of meaning through visual associations, and Li Po (or Pai) was a master of such subtleties."[Attlee, James *Nocturne: A Journey in Search of Moonlight*. University Of Chicago Press, 2011.]

15. "It was published for the first time in 1915. In general, Chinese characters can be divided into two main classes: pictographs (Wieger used the term 'simple figures') and compound forms. Pictographs have a direct relation with a concrete or abstract form. Examples are 鳥 (niăo, bird) and 三 (sān, three). Many of the MCT components introduced earlier in this introduction are pictographs. Compound forms can be divided into two categories: - First category: compound ideographs (Wieger used the term 'logical aggregates')."[Van Amstel, Adrian *Chinese Character Dictionary: A New Approach to Arranging, Explaining and Looking Up Chinese Characters*. Paperback. Createspace Independent Publishing Platform, 2016.]