Created: 2025-12-27 23:50:39
Origin: searched
Selected: Skin in Imperiale’s account is not a surface hiding interiority but rather a complexly layered organ with its own interiority. Imperiale dissects the notion of skin as a simple surface, arguing, “In its very nature a surface is in an unstable condition. ” What are the boundaries of surface?Is surface both exterior and interior?Imperiale’s essay describes emerging practices in digital geospatial and imaging techniques that engage with the way imaging intersects with the physical body in complex, rich ways.[Flanagan, Mary, and Austin Booth *Re:skin*. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press, 2006.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Skin in Imperiale’s account is not a surface hiding interiority but rather a complexly layered organ with its own interiority. Imperiale dissects the notion of skin as a simple surface, arguing, “In its very nature a surface is in an unstable condition. ” What are the boundaries of surface?Is surface both exterior and interior?Imperiale’s essay describes emerging practices in digital geospatial and imaging techniques that engage with the way imaging intersects with the physical body in complex, rich ways."[Flanagan, Mary, and Austin Booth *Re:skin*. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press, 2006.]

02. "The surface, skin, and interface of architecture are emphasized. The use of digital technologies has had a liberating effect on architectural form. Architects have been able to design organic, body-like architectures that register the infinite variations and mutations from its evolutionary growth stage in topological surfaces. These sinuous curvatures and warped surfaces wrap around the inhabitant like a second skin. What results is an emphasis on the intimate interface between technology and the living body."[Flanagan, Mary, and Austin Booth *Re:skin*. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press, 2006.]

03. "Reader Colin Hall writes: In your question about sticking your finger in carbonated drinks driving the bubbles down, your expert says that soap increases water’s surface tension. This is not the case!This little experiment will prove it. Fill a sink with water. Then, very carefully, set a paper clip on the surface. Yes, the surface. If you put it in gently enough, it’ll float. You may have to try this once or twenty times. Now put a drop of soap in the water. The paper clip sinks. The soap reduced the surface tension enough to cause the paper clip to sink."[Feldman, David *Why Do Pirates Love Parrots? (Imponderables Books)*. Harper, 2006.]

04. "THE FIND • 49 Carbon-i4 dating of the skins from the mummy graves. Grave I Grave II sealskin 1470 caribou skin 1510 sealskin 1465 caribou skin 1460 caribou skin 1480 sealskin 1470 average 1470 average 1480 however, presume that the age of the boy's skin tissue is the same as that of the six skin samples where the proportion of marine intake is known. Assuming that the boy died in about 1475, it is possible to calculate how many carbon-i4 atoms would have decayed since then, and hence how many would have been in his skin tissue while he was alive, and so determine the composition of his diet (see pp."[Hansen, Jens Peder Hart *The Greenland Mummies*. Mcgill Queens University Press, 1991.]

05. "In these images, the spill and shimmer of light across the surface minimalize the three-dimensional materiality of the body. Indeed, light becomes a kind of prosthetic skin for Baker, rendering the idea of skin itself as costume, prop, and surrogate. The masculinist/impassive/technological modern surfaces (bronze, metal, shellac, ﬁlm) ﬂow casually into the feminized/animalized/ﬂuid surfaces (skin, cloth, hair) in these images. What is so sexy about these images is not so much Baker’s naked body as its surfaceness and that quality’s ability to express and facilitate ﬂuidity."[Cheng, Anne Anlin *Second Skin: Josephine Baker & the Modern Surface*. Oxford University Press, 2011.]

06. "broad, flat and thin; sheet (鐵～ tiěpí sheet iron) 5. surface (水～ water surface) 6. soft; not crisp (花生米都～了) 7. naughty (調～ tiáopí) 8. rubber (band, etc. )(～筋 píjīn) 9. a surname 鞴) saddle a horse 坡 pō 1. slope 2. sloping 玻 bō as in ～璃 bōli glass 詖 [诐] bì 1. biased; not standard 2. argue; debate 破 pò 1. broken; damaged 2. split; cut (勢如～竹 as easy as splitting bamboo - impossible to stop or to prevent) 3. damage (牢不可～ indestructible) 4. defeat (擊～ jīpò) 5. waste; use up (capital, etc. )(～費 pòfèi spend money) 6. expose; reveal the truth (偵～ zhēnpò solve a case) 7."[Van Amstel, Adrian *Chinese Character Dictionary: A New Approach to Arranging, Explaining and Looking Up Chinese Characters*. Paperback. Createspace Independent Publishing Platform, 2016.]

07. "19:18 GGBD118C0S GR3695/DeMello July 31, 2007 SURFACE PIERCING 251 Surface piercings are relatively new and unusual piercings, and have a notoriously high failure rate. Because the body of the jewelry lies underneath a flat area of skin (rather than going through a piece of cartilage or flesh as with ear, nose, nipple, and genital piercings), there is a tremendous amount of stress placed on the skin above the piercing, which often causes the piercing to be rejected during healing. On the other hand, surface piercings that are done well and that heal well create often interesting or beautiful designs in which the beads of the jewelry appear to float on the surface of the skin."[DeMello, Margo *Encyclopedia of Body Adornment*. Greenwood, 2007.]

08. "In the center of the picture is a circular concavity about six inches in diameter, intended to represent water. In all the other pictures where water was represented, a small bowl, I observed, was sunk in the ground and filled with water, which was afterwards sprinkled with powdered charcoal to give the appearance of a flat, dry surface. Closely surrounding the central depression are four parallelograms, each about four inches wide and ten inches long in the original pictures; the half nearer the center is red, the other half is blue; they are bordered with narrow lines of white."[Halpern, Katherine Spencer, and Wheelwright Museum of the American Indian *Washington Matthews: studies of Navajo culture, 1880-1894*. University of New Mexico Press, 1997.]

09. "T h e rectangular design of the pig sty (ivam ai), with its stalls, is of ten drawn with a stick in path dirt. T h e cutting of the pig skin is also drawn. A n outline of the steamed pig skin is scratched into the earth w i t h a sharp stick. T h e n the children cut it up, marking the cuts of the bamboo knife, and saying which piece goes to w h o m . Sometimes a simpler version of this is made b y drawing a series of rectangles, w h e r e each rectangle represents a piece of skin."[Heider, Karl G. *The Dugum Dani: A Papuan Culture in the Highlands of West New Guinea*. Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research, 1970.]

10. "The experiments made were to lead to a method of treating the skins to make them soft enough to work with. Like human skin, animal skin consists of the epidermis (the outer layer), dermis (the inner layer) and subcutaneous fatty tissue. The dermis consists mainly of collagen and a semifluid ground substance. Collagen is made of thread-like fibres, composed of protein. These fibres make the skin tough and strong. Between the fibres is the ground substance, which binds water and lies like a gel between the fibre bunches."[Hansen, Jens Peder Hart *The Greenland Mummies*. Mcgill Queens University Press, 1991.]

11. "The racial fetish, metonymized as animal or Papuan skin in Loos’s work, provides the pivot on which Modernist aesthetic values turn: essence versus veneer, plainness versus excess, utility versus waste, taste versus vulgarity. Yet, as we have started to see, the pivot—that haunting skin—is itself already contaminated. Modern architecture may in fact be quite naked, though not in the senses of purity or transparency as is traditionally claimed, but rather in the very material sense of embodying a profound nostalgia for, if not a downright imitation of, the lost, originary, naked skin."[Cheng, Anne Anlin *Second Skin: Josephine Baker & the Modern Surface*. Oxford University Press, 2011.]

12. "Illustration by Paul Hambruch. Reprinted from Paul Hambruch and Anneliese Eilers, Ponape: Gesellschaft und Geistige Kultur, Wirtschaft und Stoffliche Kultur (Hamburg: Friedrichsen, De Gruyter, 1936), 2:277. 23. The design is formed by the interplay of light and dark, of clear skin and marked skin, of positive and negative. Both elements are necessary to create the pattern, which weaves ink and skin together to form a kind of living tapestry."[Ellis, Juniper *Tattooing the World: Pacific Designs in Print and Skin*. Columbia University Press, 2008.]

13. "Freckles, dimples, wrinkles, scars, stretch marks, and moles occur like features on a landscape and the skin itself can range in colour from the milkiest white to an intense blue-black. Eruptions of boils, shingles, or pimples may mar its surface, causing pain and embarrassment. Alarmingly, it bruises and bleeds. Blistering and flaking, puckering and stretching — and feeling, always feeling — the skin is in a constant state of response, alerting the body to the conditions that surround it. Our skin is unique to each of us; not even identical twins will share the same fingerprint."[Cuskelly, Maryrose *Original Skin: Exploring the Marvels of the Human Hide*. Counterpoint, 2011.]

14. "(lit. )float (～舟 fànzhōu go boating) 2. appear; reveal; present; emerge (～紅 fànhóng reddish) 3. superficial; shallow (浮～ fúfàn float about) 4. universal; pan- (～神论 pantheism) 窆 biăn (arch. )bury 6 10 [𢀖] [𢀖] Simplified form of 巠 (S14 工): underground water courses 1 [𢀖] [经] 經 jīng 1."[Van Amstel, Adrian *Chinese Character Dictionary: A New Approach to Arranging, Explaining and Looking Up Chinese Characters*. Paperback. Createspace Independent Publishing Platform, 2016.]

15. "In case it’s slipped your notice, fresh, unlined skin is prized, representing as it does beauty, wealth, and youth. An entire industry is based on the desire to keep our skins as pristine as possible. Beauty may only be skin deep, but it is in the skin that it begins, that it has its bedrock. Finely modelled cheekbones, lustrous hair, and a pixie nose will take a girl a certain way, but without the delicate bloom of smooth, clear, radiant skin, what woman can hope to be truly exquisite?We buy sunscreen to prevent skin damage, apply moisturisers to promote elasticity, and lather on anti-ageing creams to repair the ravages of time."[Cuskelly, Maryrose *Original Skin: Exploring the Marvels of the Human Hide*. Counterpoint, 2011.]

16. "Is the Increased Skin Surface New Skin or Borrowed Skin?This research question continues to receive a great deal of attention. Some conclusions, however, have been drawn: 1) Some skin is ‘recruited’ from adjacent tissues and is drawn toward the point of tension. 2) There is some initial thinning or redistribution of locally expanded skin. 3) The total population of epidermal cells is increased (4)."[Bigelow, Jim *The Joy of Uncircumcising!*. 2017.]

17. "The finished skin would be snow white, dry, and soft as velvet. It was ready for use as it was or could be further treated by smoking over a small, smudgy fire that turned the skin golden brown and made it somewhat water repellent. Several Intermontane tribes, such as the Kutenai, have well-deserved reputations for their excellent leathers. A professional tanner from Kalispell, Montana, explained to me that this had in part to do with the specific chemical content of the water available to them (Charles Hegel, personal communication, 1963)."[Ackerman, Lillian A. *A Song to the Creator: Traditional Arts of Native American Women of the Plateau*. University of Oklahoma Press, 1996.]

18. "The distance people were able to cover was directly proportional to the frequency of water sources available. There are though, many more facets to water sources and rain than this functional analysis would imply. With the advent of heavy rain, that within half an hour turns dirt roads to mud and leaves big pools on the surface of the earth, the land is saturated with colour as well as water. Not only is the earth cleaned of all tracks and traces, but the water standing on the ground, once the sand is saturated, gives eyes or mirrors to the land, opening another dimension (fig 7)."[Young, Diane Jane Barbara *The Colours of Things: Memory, Materiality and an Anthropology of the Senses in North Western South Australia*. University College London, 2001.]

19. "Three Basic Taping Methods The three basic taping methods follow the same principles in each stage of the system. They are: 1) tape on-and-off the skin, 2) tape worn long-term on the skin, and 3) tape on-and-off a skin guard. 1. On-and-Off the Skin. This is the simplest of the taping methods in terms of application and maintenance. It is used by those men whose skin is resilient enough to allow them to find a tape which they can apply, remove, and reapply as needed with minimal discom- The Skin-Expansion System Stage I—The Tape Strap fort and virtually no skin reaction."[Bigelow, Jim *The Joy of Uncircumcising!*. 2017.]

20. "In the water, the weight of the air needs to be added to the weight of water, so that a depth of 33 feet is two atmospheres absolute (“absolute” means combining the weights of the air and water), 66 feet is three atmospheres absolute, and so on. Haldane experimented by placing goats first at 33 feet of depth pressure, for various periods of time, then at 66 feet of depth pressure, and then at 99 feet of depth pressure. He noticed that he could bring the goats from 33 feet directly to sea-level pressure without any ill effect, but when he brought them straight up from 66 or 99 feet, they were clearly in pain."[Chowdhury, Bernie *The Last Dive: A Father and Son's Fatal Descent into the Ocean's Depths*. Reprint. Harper Perennial, 2002.]

21. "Pelagial skin is faded to a pale white, rarely touched by the sun. Pelagials have scavenged the bottom of the sea, and conquered many of its demesnes. Despite having no Exalted, the pelagials’ culture produces an amazing number of savants capable of recreating minor artifacts or manses. Literacy is prevalent, and the secrets of past ages await discovery in countless pelagial hoards. Motivation: Varies. A typical Motivation for a pelagial might be, “To conquer the isles of the West in the name of their Yozi patron. ” CHAPTER SEVEN • GODS AND MONSTERS OF THE WEST 155 Attributes: Strength 6, Dexterity 2, Stamina 5; Charisma 3, Manipulation 3, Appearance 1; Perception 4, Intelligence 2, Wits 3 Virtues: Compassion 1, Conviction 2, Temperance 2, Valor 2 Abilities: Athletics (Swim +3), Awareness 3, Bureaucracy, Craft (Earth) 2, Dodge 3, Integrity 2, Investigation 2 (Search +2), Linguistics (Native: Pelagial; Others: Seatongue) 1, Lore 2, Martial Arts 4, Melee 2, Occult 2, Performance 1, Presence 2, Resistance 1 (Against Knockback +3), Socialize 3, Stealth 3, Survival 1, Thrown 2, War 1 Backgrounds: Allies 3, Artifact 2, Manse 1, Resources 4 Charms: None Wyld Mutations: Poxes: Claws, Elemental Adaptations (Air, Water), Fangs, Large, Longevity, Night Vision; Deficiencies: Hungry, Ugly; Afflictions: Gills, Huge, Prehensile Tail, Thick Skin; Debilities: Lame Join Battle: 6 Attacks: Bite: Speed 5, Accuracy 6, Damage 6L, Defense -, Rate 1 Claw: Speed 5, Accuracy 6, Damage 6L, Defense 6, Rate 3 Punch: Speed 5, Accuracy 7, Damage 6B, Defense 8, Rate 3 Clinch: Speed 6, Accuracy 6, Damage 6B, Defense -, Rate 1 Coral Spear: Speed 5, Accuracy 5, Damage 10L/13, Defense 6, Rate 2 Soak: 2L/13B (Thick hide and layer of blubber, 2L/8B) Health Levels: -0/-0/-0/-1/-1//-1/-1/-2/-2/-4/Incap Dodge DV: 2 Willpower: 5 Essence: 1 Other Notes: These traits are for an average pelagial."[Alexander, Alan, Eric Brennan, Genevieve Cogman, Conrad Hubbard, and Peter Schaefer *Compass of Terrestrial Directions, Vol.2: The West (Exalted RPG)*. 2007.]

22. "I said in a previous chapter that the skin breathes as well as the lungs, though in a less degree, and if the air is permitted to reach the skin it not only removes waste and injurious substances from the body, but it also gives oxygen to the body. This oxygen combines with the carbon in the small blood-vessels, which in countless multitudes underlie the skin, and heat is given off."[Johnson, Kim K. P., Susan J. Torntore, and Joanne B. Eicher *Fashion Foundations: Early Writings on Fashion and Dress*. Berg Publishers, 2003.]

23. "Excess ink could be easily wiped from human skin using distilled water and a paper towel, but excess ink on the surface of the pig skin was difficult to remove without forceful rubbing and repeated application of isopropyl alcohol (see fig. 16. 3). The specific reason(s) for this difference are unclear, though it may perhaps relate to the absence of oils on the surface of the dead skin."[Krutak, Lars, and Aaron Deter-Wolf *Ancient Ink: The Archaeology of Tattooing*. Hardcover. University of Washington Press, 2017.]

24. "11. 11), perhaps the preliminary sketch created by the tattooist before transferring the design onto the skin (Prickett 1990). The size and type of combs achieved different results, with some implement types used exclusively for particular designs on the face (Best 1904; Robley 1987; Te Awekotuku 2007). The range of tools produced two main effects: plain-edged implements to cut the skin (to outline), and serrated-edged, or toothed, implements to introduce the ink (to shade)."[Krutak, Lars, and Aaron Deter-Wolf *Ancient Ink: The Archaeology of Tattooing*. Hardcover. University of Washington Press, 2017.]

25. "Pallis concluded: ‘the district is fundamentally saline’, with fresh water merely ‘a modification’ (288), and salinity derived from ‘direct underground communication … between the sea and the waters of the Thurne district’ (284). Four decades later, digging the Double-Headed Eagle Pool, Pallis wrote to Lambert: ‘in the deep holes the water is very salt – much saltier than in Horsey or Hickling, impossible to drink. A pleasant confirmation of my Geogr. Paper. ’6 Pallis found coastal Broadland shaped by a direct land–sea relation."[Matless, David *In the Nature of Landscape: Cultural Geography on the Norfolk Broads*. Wiley-Blackwell, 2014.]