Created: 2025-12-27 16:17:13
Origin: suggested
Selected: While approaching the top step, fire is lighting up over your head, and you see the firefighter victim within 3 ft of your reach. Whether a hoseline is available or not, the conditions can turn fatal at any second. It is at this point that the rescuing firefighter will grab any part of the victim, pull toward the stairs, and slide or tumble down the stairs to outrun the dropping heat.[Kolomay, Richard, and Robert Hoff *Firefighter Rescue And Survival*. Tulsa, Okla: PennWell, 2003.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Sometimes newel stairs were pushed out into turrets, which might be circular (e. g. White Tower, Tower of London; Beaumaris), square (e. g. Orford; Colchester; Bamburgh) or octagonal on plan (in many gatehouses). The newel stair became the most common form of staircase throughout the rest of the Middle Ages. A good survey is found in Neil Guy’s The Rise of the Anti-clockwise Newel stair. 18 As Sekler noted (and Guy shows), the Medieval spiral stair in Britain showed an extraordinary lack of development in its details."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

02. "While approaching the top step, fire is lighting up over your head, and you see the firefighter victim within 3 ft of your reach. Whether a hoseline is available or not, the conditions can turn fatal at any second. It is at this point that the rescuing firefighter will grab any part of the victim, pull toward the stairs, and slide or tumble down the stairs to outrun the dropping heat."[Kolomay, Richard, and Robert Hoff *Firefighter Rescue And Survival*. Tulsa, Okla: PennWell, 2003.]

03. "STAIR PAGE 291 Friedrich Mielke Treppen in Nürnberg Schriften zur internationalen Treppenforschung Band XV PAGE 292 STAIR 23. 2008  Man and stairs STAIR PAGE 293 Friedrich Mielke Mensch und Treppe Schriften zur internationalen Treppenforschung Band XVI PAGE 294 STAIR “how do people walk on stairs?" For the study of human behavior on  stairs, both as a whole and individually,  three different methods may be  applied: 1. A laboratory experiment,  with a programmed observation  of people walking on stairs 2. A covert observation of random  people walking on stairs 3. The notation of stepping paths  on worn stairs (Steigespuren) "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

04. "Going The depth of a stair tread from its leading edge to the vertical element between the treads (riser). Guardrail A rail to prevent a user falling down a well. Often a handrail does this, but in some stairs a separate higher guardrail is provided behind. Handrail The component gripped to aid ascent and descent. Imperial A staircase in an open hall commencing with a single straight flight to a wide landing where two branches either side return at 180°."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

05. "If one used a flow rate of 26 occ/min/unit, a single 1100 mm (44 in) stair could serve 2160 people (4320 for two stairs) and a 1400 mm (56 in) stair could serve 2750 people (5500 for two stairs). This would be the total number of occupants served by the stair(s) on all floors except those with direct egress to the outside (who would not use the stairs)."[Bukowski, Richard W. *Emergency Egress From Buildings*. National Institute of Standards and Technology, 2009.]

06. "Cut-string open stairs appear clumsy and present problems in effectively framing treads and Figure 6. 2a Framing timber stairs: Log pole with footholds chopped out, circa twelfth century, Norway 94 Stairs Figure 6. 2b Framing timber stairs: Log ladder, circa twentieth century, children's playground strings; such construction is more appropriate to composite assemblies."[Blanc, Sylvia, and Alan Blanc *Stairs, Second Edition*. Architectural Press, 2001.]

07. "Stairs Semicircular stairs nestled between walls of foundation skirting is an excellent feature for distinguishing a fairly undistinguished deck. This small, gray dining deck also features natural wood railings with glass inserts, but it’s the stairs that set a truly sophisticated tone. This is why choosing stair style is always a part of a good deck design—they should never be an afterthought Stair configuration goes far in determining how the deck is perceived."[Peterson, Chris *Deck ideas you can use: creative deck designs for every home & yard*. Minneapolis, Minn: Creative Publishing international, 2011.]

08. "Wurzach, Schloß,  unknown I 1723- 1728 Societal / J Representational Stairs 4 « . 1  ' • • U . - k m f   . . . Berlin, Land- und Amtsgericht,  Central Staircase  P. Thoemer/R. Mönnich/O. Schmalz I 1895-1905 20th Industrial Revolution 18th 19th L PAGE 106 STAIR -  2. 1966 THE HISTORY OF GERMAN STAIRCASES freitreppe exterior, free stairs The conversion from an exterior stair to a  "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

09. "Lighting All stairs must be equipped with an emergency lighting system. In smaller buildings the system may be energized by battery packs; in large buildings, such as hospitals and department stores, a generator set that kicks in immediately upon the failure of electrical service, is required. 10. 10. 5 Domestic stairs Stairs inside houses or apartments are, of course, much less restricted than legally required exit stairs."[Blanc, Sylvia, and Alan Blanc *Stairs, Second Edition*. Architectural Press, 2001.]

10. "To calculate the length of travel down stairs, they proposed two equations: L= 2·L ′ + 4·b cos (α ) (A. 18) ⎛ 3 ⎞ L = L ′·⎜ + 1 ⎟ + 4·b ⎜ cos (α ) ⎟ ⎝ ⎠ (A. 19) where: L = actual distance traveled (m) L′ = horizontal projection of path on stairs (m) a = angle of inclination to the horizontal (degrees) b = width of stairs and depth of landing (m) Equation A. 18 is valid for one story with two flights of stairs."[Hoskins, Bryan L., and James A. Milke (auth.) *Study of Movement Speeds Down Stairs*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2013.]

11. "• Wide staircases are not, typically, as steep as narrow staircases, thus making an upward drag easier and a downward drag more controlled. • Wide staircases, usually, have banisters that are securely anchored or welded in place, giving the rescuers a handhold, if needed. |181| CH08(173-210) | 3/18/03 5:04 PM Page 182 FIREFIGHTER RESCUE AND SURVIVAL | Wide-staircase “push/pull” rescue method With the advantage of being allowed more rescuers on wide staircases, the push/pull rescue method can be conducted with three rescuers to rescue a firefighter victim from a basement or any other lower level."[Kolomay, Richard, and Robert Hoff *Firefighter Rescue And Survival*. Tulsa, Okla: PennWell, 2003.]

12. "Foot of stairs. 2. Balcony."[Contet, Frédéric *Masterpieces of Eighteenth-Century French Ironwork: With Over 300 Illustrations*. Dover Publications, 2004.]

13. "STAIR PLANS. HARDWOOD MANTELS. Interior Hardwood Finish. Blumer & Kuhn Stair Co. WHOLESALE MANUFACTURERS OF STAIRS, STAIR RAILING, Balusters, Newel Posts, Mantels Pew Ends, Etc. ALSO INTERIOR FINISH Of every description in all kinds of Hard and Soft Woods Brackets, Corner and Plinth Blocks, TURNED PORCH VERANDA WORK, ETC. ST. LOUIS, MO. Copyright 1891, by Rand, McNally & Co."[Blumer, Kuhn Stair Co. *Victorian Woodturnings and Woodwork*. Dover Publications, 2012.]

14. "Class B stairs were for new construction of all stairs not required to be Class A, and for existing construction where Class A stairs would be required if new. Class B stairs were the same width as Class A but the rise was permitted to be not more than 7 ¾ in (197 mm) with a tread of not less than 9 ½ in (241 mm)."[Bukowski, Richard W. *Emergency Egress From Buildings*. National Institute of Standards and Technology, 2009.]

15. "This option indicates that the capacity for stairs in NFPA 130 is used for stairs over or under 4 % of slope in the up or down direction. Users can also modify this default setting with the desired flows and speeds through stairs. An alternative method is the definition of a plane with the shape of the stair under consideration. This method is particularly effective when the shape of the stair is not conventional (e. g. , spiral stairs)."[Ronchi, Enrico, and Daniel Nilsson (auth.) *Assessment of Total Evacuation Systems for Tall Buildings*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2014.]

16. "NEWEL The post, generally square in section, which receives the balustrade hand-rail at a change of direction of a stair or landing; the central post or pillar of a spiral stair, often consisting of a series of drums carved integrally with the stair treads themselves."[Chitham, Robert *The Classical Orders of Architecture,*. 2nd ed. Architectural Press, 2005.]

17. "34, para. 6, sent. 2 of the MBO specifies that stairs must be fitted with handrails on both sides and intermediate handrails where this is necessary for safety reasons. However, some federal state building regulations stipulate this for stairs in buildings with more than two dwellings reached via stairs. If stepless access (i. e. ramp or lift) to these dwellings is not possible, the use of the stairs by older occupants should be made safer and more comfortable by providing a handrail on both sides."[Heiss, Oliver *Barrier-Free Design*. Birkhäuser Architecture, 2010.]

18. "The mean speed for all occupants was 0. 78 m/s with the side stair users averaging 0. 75 m/s, the rear stair users averaging 0. 76 m/s, and the front stair users averaging 0. 97 m/s. The rear stair had a smaller width, thus creating a higher density with fewer people. For gender, women traveled at 0. 81 m/s and men at 0. 72 m/s (the result was statistically significant)."[Hoskins, Bryan L., and James A. Milke (auth.) *Study of Movement Speeds Down Stairs*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2013.]

19. "Make closet shelves like bookcases, and cut them to fit around pipes, if the closet conceals any. Stairs Probably no aspect of home construction is more difficult than stairs. You might do the basement stairs yourself, because you're not so fussy about how they look, and hire a good finish carpenter to build the main staircase that is the centerpiece of your living room."[Freeman, Mark *The Solar Home: How to Design and Build a House You Heat With the Sun (How-To Guides)*. Stackpole Books, 1994.]

20. "Results show that the use of two stairs (Strategy 1) for high-rise building evacuations provide higher evacuation times compared with any other strategy employed. Results about the evacuation time using three stairs or a combination of elevators and stairs present lower results than the use of two stairs. The use of three stairs or a combined use of stairs and elevators presents evacuation times in approximately the same range."[Ronchi, Enrico, and Daniel Nilsson (auth.) *Assessment of Total Evacuation Systems for Tall Buildings*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2014.]

21. "Stairs, Newel Posts Balusters Stair Railing. STAIRS, NEWEL POSTS, BALUSTERS, STAIR RAILING, ETC. Fig. 1182 Fig. 1183 Fig. 1184 Fig. 1185 Fig. 1186 Fig. 1187 Fig. 1188 Fig. 1189 DIRECTIONS NECESSARY FOR ORDERING STAIRS AND STAIR RAILING. When a flight of stairs is wanted, we should know the height of story from floor to floor, width of joists in second story, width and run of stairs, the size of cylinder, style of base used in the hall, with rough sketch showing about the shape of stairs wanted."[Blumer, Kuhn Stair Co. *Victorian Woodturnings and Woodwork*. Dover Publications, 2012.]

22. "That is why the designer of this composite deck interrupted the staircase with a landing halfway down the run. Landings add a more inviting perspective to the deck, and make it much more comfortable to climb the stairs. Wraparound stairs, such as these, make the deck more accessible, as well. Railings Contrast is one of the most powerful ways to make deck railings stand out."[Peterson, Chris *Deck ideas you can use: creative deck designs for every home & yard*. Minneapolis, Minn: Creative Publishing international, 2011.]

23. "Some problems can be solved by landings or winders, which allow the stairs to make a 90-degree turn at some point. You know what a landing is. Winders are treads that are triangular rather than rectangular, so Page 184 that two or more of them enable the staircase to turn, usually 90 degrees. Code enforcement people frown on them. You probably won't get away with them in a main staircase, but the officer may permit them in a basement stair."[Freeman, Mark *The Solar Home: How to Design and Build a House You Heat With the Sun (How-To Guides)*. Stackpole Books, 1994.]

24. "NECKING The post, generally square in section, which receives the balustrade hand-rail at a change of direction of a stair or landing; the central post or pillar of a spiral stair, often consisting of a series of drums carved integrally with the stair treads themselves. NEWEL A recess in a wall, often semi-circular in section, to accommodate a statue or other ornament."[(Auth.), Robert Chitham *The Classical Orders of Architecture*. Elsevier Ltd, Architectural Press, 1985.]