Created: 2025-11-08 12:37:09
Origin: suggested
Selected: The message may or may not be temporally divorced from “the original circumstances of its formulation”, but it is no longer divorced from its writer, which means that the writer becomes “the authenticating source of the message” and that this fact effectively inhibits the tendency towards regarding “meaning as residing in the words themselves” (Harris 2000: 236). The implication of this is that text-based computer-mediated communication introduces a “responsoring” of the written text and that, when participants interact textually on these premises, they may reclaim language from the “autoglottic” space into which writing previously relocated it.[Duncker, Dorthe *The Reflexivity of Language and Linguistic Inquiry : Integrational Linguistics in Practice*. New York ; Routledge, 2019.]

--- Context List ---
01. "The message may or may not be temporally divorced from “the original circumstances of its formulation”, but it is no longer divorced from its writer, which means that the writer becomes “the authenticating source of the message” and that this fact effectively inhibits the tendency towards regarding “meaning as residing in the words themselves” (Harris 2000: 236). The implication of this is that text-based computer-mediated communication introduces a “responsoring” of the written text and that, when participants interact textually on these premises, they may reclaim language from the “autoglottic” space into which writing previously relocated it."[Duncker, Dorthe *The Reflexivity of Language and Linguistic Inquiry : Integrational Linguistics in Practice*. New York ; Routledge, 2019.]

02. "There is a constant interactive exchange of information between an interactant's 'inside world' and the 'outside world'; understanding could not happen otherwise. Only from a neurocognitive (and, incidentally, also analytical) point of view are one interactant's understanding and meaning private, idiosyncratic, unique and fully distinct from another's. From a semanticpragmatic point of view, however, which takes 'inter-action' as its focal point, they are compatible and concordant to a degree that we can talk of 'collective acts of comprehension' and 'shared meanings'."[Gerbig, Andrea, and Oliver Mason *Language, People, Numbers: Corpus Linguistics and Society (Language and Computers : Studies in Practical Linguistics)*. Rodopi, 2008.]

03. "Comprehension can become a challenge, because it rests on empathetic acts of negotiating, which require a real or assumed other interactant. The lack of a human other forces the user to negotiate with, i. e. to make assumptions about the assumed author's linguistic and world knowledge, episodic and conceptual memory, cultural background and emotional frames of mind, in order to establish a common ground as a prerequisite for understanding."[Gerbig, Andrea, and Oliver Mason *Language, People, Numbers: Corpus Linguistics and Society (Language and Computers : Studies in Practical Linguistics)*. Rodopi, 2008.]

04. "Mistry emphasized the physical aspect of this interaction: until now, the Internet and computers have isolated the user from the surrounding environment; the archetypal Internet user is a geek sitting alone in front of a screen, oblivious to the reality around him. With SixthSense, I remain engaged in physical interaction with objects: the alternative “either physical reality or the virtual screen world” is replaced by a direct interpenetration of the two. The projection of information directly onto the real objects with which I interact creates an almost magical and mystifying effect: things appear to continuously reveal—or, rather, emanate—their own interpretation."[Žižek, Slavoj *Incontinence of the Void – Economico–Philosophical Spandrels*. MIT Press, 2017.]

05. "In the world of solids and of stable organic unities within which human thought has taken shape, the contrary is entirely the case; activities are, for the most part, traceable to clearly distinct causal centers (persons and/or forces). But just as in a world of limitless communication the separation of elements is already marked, so this world, compartmentalized by individuals, is unceasingly driven by the concern with maintaining those compartments and by a contrary concern with communication; each of us must constantly surrender to that loss of self, partial or total, which is communication with others."[Crimp, editors Douglas, Rosalind Krauss, and Annette Michelson *October journal No.36 Spring (1986) George Bataille:Writings on Laughter, Sacrifice, Nietzsche, Un-Knowing*. MIT Press Journals, 1986.]

06. "This is, for instance, why the Internet is such an unreliable – albeit useful – source of information. Without assuming that people are liars or that they are intent on misleading – though they may be that, too – the uncontrolled nature of the Internet medium results in a network of communicative fragments originating in very different settings, corresponding to very different goals and ambitions, and requiring very different forms of interpretation in relation to parameters that are not in plain view so that adequate interpretation is often beyond reach."[*Companion To Semiotics and Linguistics* Routledge, 2010.]

07. "(2012a), Mullally et al. (2012b)), Hassabis et al. (2007)). The grounding in prior memories of our capacity to imagine other worlds, both future and literary ones, indicates further means whereby literary works dynamically fuse with and transform our minds. Prior experiential associations are elicited and extended by the types of consciously-crafted imagery that distinguishes literary texts, through our immersive blending of real and fictional worlds. The use of some of the same cognitive mechanisms to perceive and act in the world and to imagine perceiving and acting in the world, suggests why literary works consciously-crafted, vivid and kinesic imagery provide especially catalytic scaffolding for perceptual flights into and beyond the usual constraints of our own imaginations."[Bourne, Craig, and Emily Caddick Bourne *The Routledge Companion to Shakespeare and Philosophy*. Routledge, 2018.]

08. "The linkages between culture and identity have become more problematic as the sources of cultural production and dissemination increase, and the possibilities of inhabiting a shared cultural world in which cultural meanings function in a common sense taken-forgranted manner recedes. In effect, both inside and outside the academy, we are all asked to do more cultural work today. (1999: 1) Part of that cultural work would naturally appear to involve language."[Cronin, Michael *Translation and Identity*. Routledge, 2006.]

09. "For the same reason, the perspective in question must pay attention to ﬂexible processes of making linguistic choices, both in production and in interpretation, from a variable (and in principle inﬁnite) range of options, in a manner that is negotiable and dynamic rather than mechanical, thus betraying a high degree of adaptability. It is the purpose of the following pages to translate this theoretical stance into a number of more practical observations. A WORLD OF COMMUNICATION The social world is truly a world of communication, discourse, or rhetoric."[*Companion To Semiotics and Linguistics* Routledge, 2010.]

10. "I have been putting forward a truism, but one whose great importance and consequences usually go unexamined. Any model of communication is at the same time a model of trans-lation, of a vertical or horizontal transfer of significance. No two historical epochs, no two social classes, no two localities use words and syntax to signify exactly the same things, to send identical signals of valuation and inference. Neither do two human beings. Each living person draws, deliberately or in immediate habit, on two sources of linguistic supply: the current vulgate corresponding to his level of literacy, and a private thesaurus."[INPUT: Steiner__After_Babel_Aspects_of_Language_and_Translation.pdf]

11. "The only reason to try to overlook these phenomena is that one has started with the prior assumption that there are such things in the world as discrete languages. All we have to do is throw out that assumption, and 407 LANGUAGE IN TH E REAL WORLD we find a new freedom and new vistas in the study of human communication. We may also observe that the traditional notion of the individual language has not only resisted definition, it's also rather unattractive, in that it represents a separatist way of thinking, a world view in which peoples are thought of as essentially separate from one another."[Lamb, Sydney, and Jonathan J. Webster *Language and Reality: Selected Writings of Sydney Lamb*. Continuum, 2004.]

12. " No two human beings share an identical associative context. Because such a context is made up of the totality of an individual existence, because it comprehends not only the sum of personal memory and experience but also the reservoir of the particular subconscious, it will differ from person to person. There are no facsimiles of sensibility, no twin psyches. All speech forms and notations, therefore, entail a latent or realized element of individual specificity. They are in part an idiolect. Every counter of communication carries with it a potential or externalized aspect of personal content."[INPUT: Steiner__After_Babel_Aspects_of_Language_and_Translation.pdf]

13. "The necessity of this historical linguistic discontinuity is most readily apparent when Pinker and Bloom try, among other things, to explain how it is that speakers converge on what they call “form–meaning pairings. ” Pinker and Bloom are aware that there are various possible rationales for any form– meaning pairing. “[A]nd that,” they write, “is precisely the problem – different rationales can impress different speakers, or the same speaker on different occasions, to different degrees. ” Having made that observation, what they do in the very next sentence is to efface those interesting differences: “But such differences in cognitive style, personal history, or momentary interests must be set aside if people are to communicate” (1990: 718), i. e. , if people are to “transmit propositional structures through a serial interface. ” For Pinker and Bloom, the setting aside of those differences was precisely the work of natural selection, the encoding of the language code on the genes, so to speak."[J.T., Andresen *Linguistics and Evolution: A Developmental Approach*. CUP, 2013.]

14. "In each case, the linguistic ‘feedback’ from experience is a particular one. Speakers of different languages therefore inhabit different ‘mediary worlds’ (Zwischenwelten). The linguistic worldview of a given community shapes and gives life to the entire landscape of psychological and communal behaviour. It is language which decides how different conceptual groupings and contours are to be ‘read’ and related within the whole."[INPUT: Steiner__After_Babel_Aspects_of_Language_and_Translation.pdf]

15. "These observations, then, seem to argue for a discursive view of relativity (Lee 1996) and to justify Halliday's (1998: 24) claim, shared by many other scholars, that "it is in grammar that our world takes shape". Acknowledgements We would like to express our thanks to the audience of the International Conference Reviewing Linguistic Thought: Perspectives into the 21s' Century and an anonymous reviewer for their comments on an earlier draft of this paper. The present work is part of a longer project partly funded by the University of Athens (Special Research Account 70/4/5528 and 70/4/5530 for the two authors respectively)."[Marmaridou, Sophia S. A. *Reviewing Linguistic Thought: Converging Trends in the 21st Century*. Mouton de Gruyter, 2005.]