Created: 2025-12-18 22:12:27
Origin: searched
Selected: The confusion about the potential of computational tools can be traced back to one essential misconception that has carried over from the historical notion of ‘mechanical objectivity’: the impression that machine processing endows results with a higher epistemological status. The mathematician Hao Wang 10. 1057/9780230371934 - Understanding Digital Humanities, Edited by David M. Berry Digital Methods 73 counters this flawed idea wittily by referring to machines as ‘persistent plodders’ (Wang 1963: 93).[Berry, David M. *Understanding Digital Humanities*. Palgrave Macmillan, 2012.]

--- Context List ---
01. "While 10. 1057/9780230371934 - Understanding Digital Humanities, Edited by David M. Berry How We Think 47 the results largely coincided with his sense of how personification works, the divergences brought into view strong new questions about such fundamental terms as ‘theory’ and ‘explanation’ (2005: 53–72). As he remarks (2008: 5), ‘A good model can be fruitful in two ways: either by fulfilling our expectations, and so strengthening its theoretical basis, or by violating them, and so bringing that basis into question. ’ The controversies around ‘reading’ suggest it is a pivotal term because its various uses are undergirded by different philosophical commitments."[Berry, David M. *Understanding Digital Humanities*. Palgrave Macmillan, 2012.]

02. "While there is no clear-cut solution to this issue, combining different methodological configurations, both digital and non-digital, might at least provide a more adequate demarcation of the explanatory reach of the formal models. In this respect, the cross-fertilisation of traditional and computational methods in the humanities holds a lot of promise. If applied undogmatically, each could serve as a corrective to the blind spots of the other, in turn uncovering fresh perspectives on the material. 3 Conclusions In this chapter, we have addressed five areas of epistemological drift and uncertainty that arise through the growing use of computational methods in the 10. 1057/9780230371934 - Understanding Digital Humanities, Edited by David M. Berry 80 Bernhard Rieder and Theo Röhle humanities."[Berry, David M. *Understanding Digital Humanities*. Palgrave Macmillan, 2012.]

03. "The confusion about the potential of computational tools can be traced back to one essential misconception that has carried over from the historical notion of ‘mechanical objectivity’: the impression that machine processing endows results with a higher epistemological status. The mathematician Hao Wang 10. 1057/9780230371934 - Understanding Digital Humanities, Edited by David M. Berry Digital Methods 73 counters this flawed idea wittily by referring to machines as ‘persistent plodders’ (Wang 1963: 93)."[Berry, David M. *Understanding Digital Humanities*. Palgrave Macmillan, 2012.]

04. "  Va r i a b l e ,  I d e n t i c a l ,  D i f f e r e n t i a l   3 9  Nothing prevents digital technologies from being used to  make identical (or homothetic) copies. Indeed, anyone can use  a computer with a scanner and printer to emulate a photocopier. But this is neither the smartest nor the most cost-effective way  to use a computer. Concurrent with the construction of the  Guggenheim Bilbao, new theories were emerging to claim just  that—namely, that digital technologies could be put to better use  designing and building digitally variable objects, rather than  making three-dimensional copies; and that digital design could  be digital from the start (i. e. , design could start from algorithms  rather than from the scanning and scaling of physical models)."[INPUT: Carpo - 2011 - The alphabet and the algorithm.pdf]

05. "So it seems, to sum up, that in the long duration of historical  time the age of mass-produced, standardized, mechanical, and  identical copies should be seen as an interlude, and a relatively  brief one—sandwiched between the age of hand-making, which  preceded it, and the digital age that is now replacing it. Handmaking begets variations, as does digital making; but the capacity  to design and mass-produce serial variations (or differentiality)  is specific to the present digital environment. Unlimited visual  variability, however, may entail a loss of visual relevance: signs  that change too often or too randomly may mean less, individually taken, and may in the end lose all meaning. 14 This was al- "[INPUT: Carpo - 2011 - The alphabet and the algorithm.pdf]

06. "Relational interpretations, by contrast, have as aim the understanding of a relation between the interpretandum, or its meaning, and something else that the interpreter brings into the hermeneutic process. Relational interpretations are inﬁnite in kind, since an interpretandum may, in principle, be related to anything whatever. We also need to realize that within these speciﬁc kinds of interpretations and their aims, contexts lead to further particular aims for interpreters. For example, a Freudian interpretation may be given a particular twist because the interpreter wishes to have a particular kind of understanding of the interpretandum."[Gracia, Jorge J.E. *Painting Borges: Philosophy Interpreting Art Interpreting Literature*. State University Press of New York, 2012.]

07. "Does the curved shape of London's Swiss Re Building, the twisted profile of New York's proposed Freedom Tower, or the non-repetitive roof structure of the British Museum courtyard represent some significant change in the conditions of production of architecture?The shift, I suggest, is a direct outcome of new conditions created by the digital revolution. Buildings were once materialized drawings, but now, increasingly, they are materialized digital information designed with the help of computer-aided design systems, fabricated by means of digitally controlled machinery, put together on site with the assistance of digital layout and positioning devices, and generally inseparable from flows of information through global computer networks."[(auth.), Georg Flachbart, Georg Flachbart, and Peter Weibel (eds.) *Disappearing Architecture: From Real to Virtual to Quantum*. Birkhäuser Basel, 2005.]

08. "It will analyze the work of Gunter Dueck at IBM on the so-called Great Deluge Algorithm. This case study on how simulation is used to deal with complex problems in a thoroughly technological context of application will reveal that some characteristics of simulation-based understanding do not ﬁt easily into the framework of theory-based understanding. Some scientists argue that the latter understanding should be replaced by a model-based one. Two options for balancing the perceived relation between simulation and scientiﬁc understanding exist: either stick to the traditional “insight” concept of understanding and take simulation as a new instrument that can provide control and options for intervention without understanding, or enlarge (weaken) the concept of understanding and admit a pragmatic simulation-based mode of understanding that works partly without the intelligibility of theory, but ﬁts to an engineering context of application."[de Regt, Henk W., Sabina Leonelli, and Kai Eigner (eds.) *Scientific Understanding: Philosophical Perspectives*. University of Pittsburgh Press, 2009.]

09. "The end of  modernism, the end of industrial standardization, and the rise of  neoconservatism occurred almost simultaneously with the rise  of digital technologies and digital culture in the West; though  it is difficult to establish a direct causal relationship between  these events, it is easy to see why many that have taken a stance  against the digital turn now see all new information technologies as agents of evil—or of financial capitalism. Using multiple  forms for the same function may be vain, antisocial, and wasteful."[INPUT: Carpo - 2011 - The alphabet and the algorithm.pdf]

10. "The same holds for the other routes to understanding I have highlighted in this chapter. The understanding we acquire may not pass through an explanation, but it may nevertheless be understanding of an independent and objective reality. One natural way to show that a purely “explanationist” conception of understanding is excessively narrow is to point out the extent to which scientiﬁc understanding is understanding how rather than understanding why, and thus the extent to which understanding ﬂows from abilities or skills rather than from explanations."[de Regt, Henk W., Sabina Leonelli, and Kai Eigner (eds.) *Scientific Understanding: Philosophical Perspectives*. University of Pittsburgh Press, 2009.]

11. "And people who gain understanding in this way may not be left in a position to formulate an explanation that captures the same information. Yet their understanding is real. Manipulation provides an even more obvious and pervasive example of the acquisition of causal information without the acquisition of an explanation. Thus, a scientist may gain a sophisticated understanding of the behavior of a complicated piece of machinery by becoming an expert at using it, and that understanding consists in part in the acquisition of causal information that the scientist may be in no position to articulate."[de Regt, Henk W., Sabina Leonelli, and Kai Eigner (eds.) *Scientific Understanding: Philosophical Perspectives*. University of Pittsburgh Press, 2009.]

12. "There is often a commitment to use digital preservation techniques to ensure the continued availability and usefulness of the digital materials that they contain. Institutional repository systems share the capabilities described previously for disciplinary and institutional-unit archives, but may be further optimised to more fully support a wide range of digital materials, the autonomous operation of institutional units, and digital preservation."[(Eds.), Neil Jacobs *Open Access. Key Strategic, Technical and Economic Aspects*. Chandos Publishing, 2006.]

13. "In other words, an ethical framework for understanding the relationship between a live performer and his/her motion capture data can be mapped more broadly across wider social-digital interactions."[Kozel, Susan *Closer: Performance, Technologies, Phenomenology (Leonardo Books)*. 2008.]

14. "It also became clear that the perspective of dance and philosophy provides an authentic stance from which to reﬂect upon the wider implications of human bodies using digital technologies, ﬁlling a gap in scholarship and in broader cultural discourse around digital technologies."[Kozel, Susan *Closer: Performance, Technologies, Phenomenology (Leonardo Books)*. 2008.]

15. "At first glance, these caveats may seem to apply exclusively to deductive methodologies that aim at proving or falsifying hypotheses and express strong claims to objectivity and validity. But even in settings where software tools are used to generate new representations and ideas, technological black-boxing 10. 1057/9780230371934 - Understanding Digital Humanities, Edited by David M. Berry Digital Methods 77 remains a problem: every form of automated analysis is one interpretation among others and there is an epistemological proposition, a directedness, to every tool we use."[Berry, David M. *Understanding Digital Humanities*. Palgrave Macmillan, 2012.]