Created: 2025-11-15 02:26:20
Origin: suggested
Selected: It seems clear, therefore, that everyday language is bound up with two different traditions: one the tradition of linguistic communication (which requires an attention to the functionality of information), the other the tradition of information technology focused on processes of transforming, coding, and decoding. These telecommunicative processes have a structure, but that structure does not have to be linguistic, meaningful, or capable of being true or false. ON THE AGE OF CONTRADICTION The myths and icons of naturalized information we have seen so far might seem to suggest that the newly germinating disciplines of the twentieth century—c ybernetics or the mathematical theory of information, or their borrowings in biology, chemistry, and physics—a re 10 Information and Myth fundamentally responsible for this interesting ambiguity in ordinary speech.[Janich, Peter, Eric Hayot, and Lea Pao *What Is Information?*. Univ Of Minnesota Press, 2018.]

--- Context List ---
01. "It seems clear, therefore, that everyday language is bound up with two different traditions: one the tradition of linguistic communication (which requires an attention to the functionality of information), the other the tradition of information technology focused on processes of transforming, coding, and decoding. These telecommunicative processes have a structure, but that structure does not have to be linguistic, meaningful, or capable of being true or false. ON THE AGE OF CONTRADICTION The myths and icons of naturalized information we have seen so far might seem to suggest that the newly germinating disciplines of the twentieth century—c ybernetics or the mathematical theory of information, or their borrowings in biology, chemistry, and physics—a re 10 Information and Myth fundamentally responsible for this interesting ambiguity in ordinary speech."[Janich, Peter, Eric Hayot, and Lea Pao *What Is Information?*. Univ Of Minnesota Press, 2018.]

02. "I will now analyse the difficulties faced by library and information science (LIS) when it comes to constructing a user-friendly system for mediating electronic documents – especially for information retrieval (IR) – by applying the cognitive information processing paradigm. The main problem with this paradigm is that its concept of information and language does not systematically address how social and cultural dynamics determine the meaning of those signs and words, which are LIS’s basic tools for organizing and retrieving documents."[Brier, Soren *Cybersemiotics: Why Information Is Not Enough!*. 2nd. University of Toronto Press, 2008.]

03. "This kind of work cannot be done without an ongoing dialogue between metatheory and specific theory, especially in the information, cognition, and communication sciences. When there is an ongoing dialogue with the aims and forces of technology, development is unavoidable. In establishing a new framework, I also hope to create a third culture, one that transcends the incommensurability between C. P. Snow’s two cultures: science-technology, and the humanities and social sciences."[Brier, Soren *Cybersemiotics: Why Information Is Not Enough!*. 2nd. University of Toronto Press, 2008.]

04. "I hope this book will inspire other LIS researchers to take a new approach to the problems they work with, and I encourage feedback. Recto Running Head 425 12 Summing Up Cybersemiotics: The Five-Level Cybersemiotic Framework for the Foundation of Information, Cognition, and Communication 12. 1 Introduction The result of preceding analysis of cognitive science, information science, the information processing paradigm, the cybernetic information paradigm including Bateson, second order cybernetics, ethology, and library and information science document retrieval problems is this: it does not seem possible to establish a foundation for a transdisciplinary information science without relating it to theories of cognition, communication, mind, and meaning that span the humanities and social sciences on one hand, and the classical sciences and a theory of evolution on the other."[Brier, Soren *Cybersemiotics: Why Information Is Not Enough!*. 2nd. University of Toronto Press, 2008.]

05. "The resulting focus on language as a sequentially ordered practice has increased the appreciation of CA and EM. However, in spite of these insights, information is still usually treated as something that has existence in its own right—that social things are done to and with—that existing independently, information also comes to have a social life. Garfinkel, by contrast, has since 1952 treated information as almost entirely dependent on constitutive social elements for its existence. The classic examinations of the intersection between language and information by Shannon, Weaver, Bateson, etc. , that Garfinkel makes creative use of in this manuscript, date from just before and after the second world war."[Garfinkel, Harold, and Anne Rawls (ed.) *Toward a Sociological Theory of Information*. Paradigm, 2008.]

06. "Translation between different message formats and languages is another use for information systems, and not only human language. Computation is now used universally to turn physical motion into commands, through transducers like the mouse, touchscreens, motion sensors, etc. Automated human language translation is, of course, embedded into a sizable fraction of the software we use on a daily basis. This brings us to a third aspect of information associated with infrastructure, which is learning. Learning offers the possibility of escaping the constraints of scale, i. e."[Burgess, Mark *In Search of Certainty: The science of our information infrastructure*. CreateSpace Independent Publishing Platform, 2013.]

07. "We add the category of “inferential information” as a possible modifier of primary and secondary information. The term distinguishes between information that stands as the product of a message and information obtained by the communicant’s processes of inference. While the information obtained from a message may be viewed as related to the message through a set of “coding” or “transforming” rules whereby the signal and its referents are matched, it is also possible to obtain information from what one learns directly from the meanings of the message by a chain of judgments whereby sets of meanings other than those meant through the message are implicated with the meanings of the message."[Garfinkel, Harold, and Anne Rawls (ed.) *Toward a Sociological Theory of Information*. Paradigm, 2008.]

08. "I have in mind "conceptual role semantics" (Harman 1982; Loar 1982; Loewer 1982; Block 1986), "correlational semantics" (McLaughlin 1987), "information-based semantics'' (Fodor 1988), and "interpretational semantics" (Cummins 1989). I object to the practice of using the term 'semantics' in this dual way on the grounds that it promotes a conflation between two aspects of representation that should be distinguished."[Von Eckardt, Barbara *What is cognitive science?*. MIT Press, 1995.]

09. "For Garfinkel it is not only words but objects that are “thingified” through use. Any referential relationship between the two would need to come after this social process—in each case. “We know the thing information,” Garfinkel maintains (113), “through usage. We’re looking for the ideas that are immanent to the concept of information in use. ” The problem has been in treating information, like meaning, in abstraction—as a thing in itself."[Garfinkel, Harold, and Anne Rawls (ed.) *Toward a Sociological Theory of Information*. Paradigm, 2008.]

10. "Information, by allowing us to organize, track, and sequence objects and actions, can help us overcome many constraints. Information itself, of course, has a cost, and can therefore also act as a constraint, a factor we will also explore. New technology may incorporate information, such as in computer controlled fuel injection in cars, or may result from the substitution of new materials or processes (which of course is also the result of new information produced by experimentation). In the sections that follow, the role of constraints in different domains is explored in the context of the roles of information and new technology in overcoming these constraints."[Loehle, Craig *Becoming a Successful Scientist: Strategic Thinking for Scientific Discovery*. Cambridge University Press, 2010.]

11. "One might disambiguate the above situation by making the representation of the hate relation more specific. That is, one might introduce one node for Art-subject-hates-Ike-object, one node for Art-subject-hates-Neal-object, one node for Fred-subject-hates-Ike-object, and one node for Fred-subject-hates-Neal-object. Then when one wanted to represent that Art hates Ike and Fred hates Neal, one would activate only the first and the fourth of these nodes rather than the second and the third. But, as Fodor and Pylyshyn (1988, p. 24) so aptly put it, this proposal "requires rather a lot of microfeatures [i. e."[Von Eckardt, Barbara *What is cognitive science?*. MIT Press, 1995.]

12. "There “is” also information as opposed to knowledge, as opposed to wisdom, as opposed to data, as opposed to experience, information more or less “raw” and more or less “processed. ” There are, in sum, informations, various interlocking concepts that come together in partially stable information regimes, each of which collocates a set of terms, a set of ideologies, and a set of goals that determine its articulation of the concept and its attendant words."[Janich, Peter, Eric Hayot, and Lea Pao *What Is Information?*. Univ Of Minnesota Press, 2018.]

13. "In contrast, information-processing capacities of the sort referred to in the combined linking assumption (or what I shall refer to as "narrow information processing capacities") are purely mental, involving a transformation from one mental representation to another. Because of this difference in scope, the identification between ordinary input and output capacities, on the one hand, and Page 304 Figure 9. 1 How the human cognitive capacities, as ordinarily construed, map onto the human information-processing capacities."[Von Eckardt, Barbara *What is cognitive science?*. MIT Press, 1995.]

14. "Sarkar provides us with an introduction to Shannon–Weaver information theory, and then develops an alternative account of information. He argues that genes code for proteins directly, and hence indirectly encode information for phenotypic traits. Peter Godfrey Smith attempts to understand the metaphors by contrasting the actual mechanism by which genes affect phenotypic traits with alternative possible mechanisms. This leads him to conclude that it is appropriate to talk of genes encoding information for protein molecules, but not for anything “higher up” than that."[Hitchcock, Christopher *Contemporary Debates in Philosophy of Science*. Malden, MA: Blackwell Pub, 2004.]

15. "Both in academia and in the popular imagination, our sense of this new life with and as information, this intensification of informational life, seems to stem from a series of recent technological transformations—most prominently the rise of digital methods of information encoding, compression, storage, and networking. But “information” can also be understood as a matter of human concern for far longer, dating back to what Michael E. Hobart and Zachary Schiffman call the earlier “information ages” characterized by the development of writing (in Mesopotamia, 3500 b. c. e. )"[Janich, Peter, Eric Hayot, and Lea Pao *What Is Information?*. Univ Of Minnesota Press, 2018.]