Created: 2025-11-07 12:38:36
Origin: searched
Selected: As apparition of a grammar, such a language-image [immagine-linguaggio] implies a peculiar spectrality that affects the visible-invisible relation and structures the modalities of its fruition. From this point of view, the digital image—which can be multisensory—is not simply image-of; it is not only a mimesis of that of which it is image,2 identifiable or not, and is therefore not essentially simulacrum. 3 Nor, in any case, is it an icon4 or original image. On the contrary, it is a genetic-relational form that belongs to a multiple system of translation.[Roberto Diodato, Silvia Benso, Justin L. Harmon, John Protevi. *Aesthetics of the Virtual*. Albany: State University of New York Press, 2012.]

--- Context List ---
01. "As apparition of a grammar, such a language-image [immagine-linguaggio] implies a peculiar spectrality that affects the visible-invisible relation and structures the modalities of its fruition. From this point of view, the digital image—which can be multisensory—is not simply image-of; it is not only a mimesis of that of which it is image,2 identifiable or not, and is therefore not essentially simulacrum. 3 Nor, in any case, is it an icon4 or original image. On the contrary, it is a genetic-relational form that belongs to a multiple system of translation."[Roberto Diodato, Silvia Benso, Justin L. Harmon, John Protevi. *Aesthetics of the Virtual*. Albany: State University of New York Press, 2012.]

02. "It is also necessary that the system be completely differentiated both syntactically and semantically. Hence the definiteness and repeatability that digital devices can provide. Now, a digital image that is not properly modifiable in an interaction, not exactly interactive, might exemplify a semantic interpretation of a symbolic scheme. We would have then the opportunity to clarify beyond any process of resemblance the difference between an analog and a digital image, even when, paradoxically, the digital image “represents” the analog picture, or possesses the same “content. ” The digital image would then be a representation that is not a mere depiction but a description, as opposed to the painting, which is not a notational symbolic scheme, but rather one that is syntactically dense inasmuch as it fails to permit a finite scansion of the scale of values that belong to it."[Roberto Diodato, Silvia Benso, Justin L. Harmon, John Protevi. *Aesthetics of the Virtual*. Albany: State University of New York Press, 2012.]

03. "Contents Introduction Breaking Boundaries: Towards a Global Theory of Architectural Representation Eric Roose Chapter 1 The Architectural Representation of Reality: The Built Environment as the Materialization of a Mental Construct Aart Mekking Chapter 2 The Architectural Representation of Islam: Saintly Brilliance in the New Design for the Amsterdam Taibah Mosque Eric Roose Chapter 3 The Architectural Representation of Paradise: Sufi Cosmology and the Four-ı̄wān Plan Elena Paskaleva Chapter 4 The Architectural Representation of Taboo: Toilet Taboos as Guardians of Old Taiwanese Representations of Family Life En-Yu Huang Chapter 5 The Architectural Representation of Diversity: Changing Scopes to Meet Changing Realities in The Hague’s Transvaal Neighbourhood Aart Mekking 7 23 51 95 141 173 List of Contributors 207 Classified Index 209 5 Introduction Breaking Boundaries: Towards a Global Theory of Architectural Representation Eric Roose In a world that is growing smaller by the day, we are left with architectural tools that no longer suffice for the description, the interpretation, and certainly not the creation of a built environment that holds the increasingly diverse communities within today’s complex social situations."[Aart J.J. Mekking, Eric Roose. *The Global Built Environment as a Representation of Realities: Why and How Architecture Should Be the Subject of Worldwide Comparison*. 2009.]

04. "A particular case is explored in the fourth episode of the Transcripts. As 9  opposed to the plans, maps, or axonometrics used in the early episodes, the  perspectival description of buildings is concomitant with their photographic record;  the photograph acts as the origin of the architectural image. The perspective image  is no longer a mode of three-dimensional drawing, but the direct extension of the  photographic mode of perception. One of the most common techniques of  reproduction (of representation) is brought into the reality of the building, not as  trompe-1'oe. il, but as data. "[INPUT: Tschumi__The_Manhattan_Transcripts.pdf]

05. "'Combined analysis', taking as its object both the morphology and the semantics of the image, has far greater range. A formalist description of the rhetoric of vraisemblance might begin with the proposition that lifelikeness or 'high mimesis' results from a supposed exteriority of the signified to the signifier. 22 Reading a realist novel, we quickly lose the sense that we still possess when reading, for example, poetry, of the work of signification as a process occurring within the text; signification seems to enter the text from an 'outside', an outer reality which the text passively mirrors."[(auth.), Norman Bryson. *Vision and Painting: The Logic of the Gaze*. Palgrave Macmillan UK, 1983.]

06. "Even a painting, like any analogic or digital image, is an image-thing [cosa-immagine] in a more or less mimetic sense. We can, for example, reflect on the ontological value of a painting-image [immagine-dipinto], understood in simple and traditional terms as a representational-mimetic form, and then work by means of difference. Gadamer, as we know, articulates an ontological model for this: In our analysis of the concept of the picture we are concerned with two questions only."[Roberto Diodato, Silvia Benso, Justin L. Harmon, John Protevi. *Aesthetics of the Virtual*. Albany: State University of New York Press, 2012.]

07. "Ultimately, the architectural languages of Jones, Harries, and Thiis-Evensen are all provocative hermeneutical explications. They demonstrate the prolific interpretive possibilities that a text—in this case, architecture—offers. They demonstrate that, as with any hermeneutical project, the understanding of any text is multivalent, always underway, and never complete. The work of these three architectural thinkers is inspiring and motivates researchers to forge other innovative hermeneutic renditions of architectural expression, experience, and meaning. References Alexander, C. 2002–2005. The Nature of Order, 4 vols. Berkeley: Center for Environmental Structure. Assefa, E. M. , and D. Seamon. 2007. Karsten Harries’ Natural Symbols as a Means for Interpreting Architecture: Inside and Outside in Frank Lloyd Wright’s Fallingwater and Alvar Aalto’s Villa Mairea. Wolkenkuckucksheim 12(1): 1–7. Bortoft, H. 1996. The Wholeness of Nature. Edinburgh: Floris. ———. 2012. Taking Appearance Seriously."[(eds.), Bruce B. Janz. *Place, Space and Hermeneutics*. Springer International Publishing, 2017.]

08. "The mimetic doctrine can therefore be summed up in a single word: recognition; and it is the logic of the word 'recognition' we must now consider. Its sense is far from simple. In such statements as 'I know that face', Perceptualism 39 'Now I see where we are', recognition involves a direct comparison between two terms, the anterior and the posterior occurrence. An act of recollection is performed: the new or present datum is referred to and placed alongside an earlier datum retrieved from memory. We can designate this as recognition in its most fundamental and rudimentary form; yet in such statements as 'Now I understand, looking at the View of Toledo, what El Greco meant by divine retribution', or 'Now I see what Grunewald understood by humiliation', a quite different process is at work: in these statements, as with all propositions that concern recognition of intentions said to exist 'behind' a particular image, and all acts of apprehension where the viewer grasps a gerundive content to-beexpressed by way of the image, cross-reference and comparison between present and prior data does not occur."[(auth.), Norman Bryson. *Vision and Painting: The Logic of the Gaze*. Palgrave Macmillan UK, 1983.]

09. "Architecture emerges as the containment and pacification of textual energies which, without that binding influence from matter fixed in space, would soon run across the text from end to end. What governs both metaphor and metonymy is another textual operation: visualization. The text as a whole is envisaged as a luxurious Neapolitan building. This response to the Imagines is Lehmann's distinctive ekphrastic operation."[Stephen Melville, Bill Readings (eds.). *Vision and Textuality*. Macmillan Education UK, 1995.]

10. "Thus, the digital image, at least in its strongest characterization, is not strictly speaking “image” but “subtle body,” a hybrid image-object entity, and its appearance, its existence as image, is essentially interactive. Let us now justify these observations, first of all in their effects with respect to some traditional categories in aesthetics, namely, representation and simulacrum. When the virtual body is understood as representation, it demonstrates a unique complexity and paradoxical nature."[Roberto Diodato, Silvia Benso, Justin L. Harmon, John Protevi. *Aesthetics of the Virtual*. Albany: State University of New York Press, 2012.]