Created: 2025-12-26 22:47:50
Origin: suggested
Selected: • Have spaces been made visually varied and interesting by using changing ceiling heights and soffit areas as well as nonrectangular spaces?• When appropriate, are rhythmic or sequential spatial experiences provided?• Are the proportions of walls and spaces esthetically pleasing?| 101 102 | Developing a Rough Floor Plan With the rough floor plan nearing completion, now is the time to test and evaluate its three-dimensional potential.[Karlen, Mark, and Rob Fleming *Space Planning Basics*. 4th ed. Wiley, 2016.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Sloping terrain often generates a design solution with staggered floor levels. On occasion, in the renovation of older buildings, particularly those with low or constraining ceiling heights, floor levels will be adjusted to open up spaces. There is also the occasional need to join two adjacent buildings with unaligned floor levels. Buildings with intermediate floor levels have the potential for creating visually exciting spaces and vistas."[Karlen, Mark, and Rob Fleming *Space Planning Basics*. 4th ed. Wiley, 2016.]

02. "• Have spaces been made visually varied and interesting by using changing ceiling heights and soffit areas as well as nonrectangular spaces?• When appropriate, are rhythmic or sequential spatial experiences provided?• Are the proportions of walls and spaces esthetically pleasing?| 101 102 | Developing a Rough Floor Plan With the rough floor plan nearing completion, now is the time to test and evaluate its three-dimensional potential."[Karlen, Mark, and Rob Fleming *Space Planning Basics*. 4th ed. Wiley, 2016.]

03. "Outside becomes in, inside becomes out. Lighting armatures and lighting levels were very important because of the function of the space, and soft lighting combines with natural materials to create a warm, welcoming feel. 在室内的表面设计中，马赛克、天然石材、木材、玻璃和镜 子等材料相互作用，打造出了一曲和谐的乐章。设计师精心 挑选了一些图案、海报和标语贴在墙面上，为空间增添了浪 漫的感觉。 2 1. Wood floor in cutting area creates a relaxing atmosphere 2."[Chang, Catherine *Beauty Salons*. Liaoning Science & Technology Publishing House, Profession Design Press, 2011.]

04. "Assessing the levels of natural light in an interior is the first step to designing your lighting. The different views shown here (above and below) of the fabulous, dark lacquer, pivoting-panel doors in my home illustrate how much impact the choice of materials has on light. I designed these innovative floor-to-ceiling doors to divide my television room from my open-plan dining space, and whatever angle they are moved to, their shiny surfaces bounce light around and reflect ever-changing views of the room."[Hoppen, Kelly *House of Hoppen: A Retrospective*. Jacqui Small, 2016.]

05. "Then, there’s a simple neutral sisal rug on the floor, which adds texture, ties into the color of the beige floor squares, and adds a little calm to the room. Sofa: quiet. Also beigey. Pillows: mixture of quiet and “wow,” drawing from the other patterns, colors, and materials in the room to inform a balance of “wow” on an otherwise neutral piece. This might sound a little milquetoast at first glance, but then POP!"[Salway, Christina, and Monica Pedersen *Home improvement projects for the busy & broke: how to get your $h!t together and live like an adult*. Skyhorse Publishing, 2016.]

06. "FLOOR PAGE 29 2012 Wall-through-wall carpet: in an effort to break the monotony of ubiquitous wall-to-wall carpet, Dutch firm Carpets  for Buildings lays the floor plan (In a computer) over a massive gradated pattern, with carpet then printed and laid as  glimpses of this Invisible, larger whole. bearing The sensual floor - always touching or communicating with the body - participates in the body's  bearing and movement."[INPUT: floor.pdf]

07. "“Thinking about how you move in and through a space is the key. ” Reorienting a layout can deliver great gains,suchascreatingadualuseforasingle room or maximising storage, says Sydney interior designer Natasha Levak. “With a clever floor plan, you can ensure no space is wasted and the general feeling of the interior becomes not only practical but aesthetically pleasing. ” Levak recently remodelled an Art Deco apartment in Sydney’s east."[*Australian House & Garden* 2017.]

08. "For example, a marble runner within a wooden floor could form a ‘pathway’ through a hall and into a living space, perhaps continuing to the fireplace or window; or in a kitchen, dark wood set into a poured-resin floor could be echoed by a worktop or cabinets of the same wood. One of the joys of introducing contrasting runners is that it allows you to use luxury materials that in large quantities would blow the budget."[Hoppen, Kelly *House of Hoppen: A Retrospective*. Jacqui Small, 2016.]

09. "In tap and flamenco dance, the floor is made into a musical instrument. Wood floors with their FLOOR PAGE 53 i 1949 Jackson Pollock painting with gravity on the floor of his Long Island  studio, in the well-known photo for L i f e  magazine by Martha Holmes, which  establishes Pollock as a maverick, eschewing the easel. L i f e  also brands  him "Jack the Dripper, " begging the question that will torture Pollock more  than anyone else: Can a painter who works on the floor be serious? (Though  the inverse, painting on the ceiling, carries the indisputable aura of genius. )  Pollock's stained studio floor is preserved as a site of pilgrimage. "[INPUT: floor.pdf]

10. "A successful solution to this problem relies on co-operation between the different suppliers and users. Wall-to-wall floor finishes which layover all the panels can be used, but for deep raised floor systems, will not provide the intended ease of flexibility for access to the services below. Window sill and transom levels should be designed to suit the range of potential floor levels provided by the raised floor."[Blanc, Alan *Internal Components*. Routledge, 1994.]

11. "At the waiting area, the wood floor pattern breaks the normal long-running board pattern with cross-stitched short boards slowing the visitor down. In the lounge area a brick floor with a simple running bond pattern define the informal dining area. At the kitchen visitors walk on an antiqued hexagonal brick floor. Even in the bathrooms, a carefully considered large stone floor pattern support a larger series of discrete experiences that work overall to quietly engage the visitor into quiet contemplation."[Du (Editor), Darren *New Art Deco Style*. Design Media Publishing Ltd, 2011.]

12. "The walls are a large “plane. ” The sofa is a large “plane. ” The floor coverings and floor are large planes. My apartment might be a fun example to analyze . . . Our dining room and living room have zany painted floors—a deep beigey color coupled with a crisp white to make a wild, but not too wild, checkerboard floor. The walls pull from the white in the floor—a quiet “plane” in contrast with the “pop” of the painted floors."[Salway, Christina, and Monica Pedersen *Home improvement projects for the busy & broke: how to get your $h!t together and live like an adult*. Skyhorse Publishing, 2016.]

13. "Advancing hues work overtime to make generously sized rooms appear more intimate by absorbing light. Rich, sun-drenched colors look best after dark, lit by candles, picture lights, wall sconces and carefully placed table and floor lamps—with dimmer switches adjusting lighting levels. During the day, deep colors accentuate cracks and patches on walls, plus make ceiling imperfections difficult to ignore."[Phillips, Betty Lou, and Don Piassick *The French room*. Layton, UT, United States., France: Gibbs-Smith, 2008.]

14. "The random of the facets is a sharp contrast with the environment, it reminds of the freedom of nature, while large wood walls structure the space into a spatial composition the reveals unexpected views and perspective as you walk through. The space seems to be created with three basic elements: water (glass), stone (concrete floor) and wood (walls)."[Chang, Catherine *Beauty Salons*. Liaoning Science & Technology Publishing House, Profession Design Press, 2011.]

15. "That said, it should be remembered that arbitrarily eliminating as many interior walls as possible will not necessarily result in a better space. While floor area and elbow room are inevitably gained, wall space is lost. This may affect the possibilities for furniture placement and storage options. Open-concept layouts are great so long as they truly correspond with the necessities at hand."[Shafer, Jay *The Small House Book*. Tumbleweed Tiny House, 2009.]

16. "In fact, for a multistory building, location of stairs, escalators and elevators often control the floor plan. Consequently, systems design can also be useful in selecting the location of verticalcirculation subsystems for an efficient floor plan and thus further contributing to optimization of the building. 14. 1. RAMPS A ramp is a sloping passageway for movement of people and goods."[Merritt, Frederick S., and James Ambrose (auth.) *Building Engineering and Systems Design*. Springer US, 1989.]

17. "‘It enables us to navigate the junctions of public and private space, and somehow the plan eases movement within its clear circulation system. In practical terms, it means areas can be closed off and different points of access used. ’ This is necessary when people want to enter the gallery space run by Michael. This expansive, window-lined room faces the street, and here an atmosphere of containment has been engineered by raising the floor by 300mm and building a plywood insert which forms the floor, extensive shelving for books, walls and areas for the display of Michael’s highly curated objects and works of art."[McCartney, Karen *The Alchemy of Things: Interiors Shaped by Curious Minds*. Allen & Unwin, 2018.]

18. "For examples, a single space could be bedroom, study room and parlour at the same time. The charm of the "mix and match" of functions lies in the relaxing atmosphere created in such a multi-functional space. Meanwhile, to some extent, such an unconventional space layout would likely free us from certain constraints. The space with a European style shown above is mainly used as a study room."[Du (Editor), Darren *New Art Deco Style*. Design Media Publishing Ltd, 2011.]

19. "Figure 4 shows that the expressions contained in the seismic provisions of the UBC 1997 and ASCE/SEI 7-10 to determine floor accelerations for the design of nonstructural components are representative of the floor acceleration envelope. The term Ai /Ag represents the amplification of the floor acceleration with respect to the peak ground acceleration, and the term hi /hr represents the floor height divided by the roof height."[Lynn, Abraham C., and Robert Reitherman *AEI 2011 : building integration solutions : proceedings of the 2011 Architectural Engineering National Conference, March 30-April 2, 2011 Oakland, California*. Oakland, Calif.), Reston, Va: American Society of Civil Engineers, 2011.]

20. "The system generally developed to form walking-height interstitial space and also to develop maximum column-free occupied spaces employs longspan trusses. The top chords of the trusses form the basic framing for the floor or roof above and the bottom chords serve as framing for both the ceiling below and the floor of the interstitial space. Hospitals have special requirements that make interstitial spaces advantageous and possibly economical."[Merritt, Frederick S., and James Ambrose (auth.) *Building Engineering and Systems Design*. Springer US, 1989.]

21. "For the finished floor I used a similar approach to the old red dance floor. I allowed the foam board insulation layer to follow the slope of the old concrete slab and then used blocks to build a level, ¾” OSB subfloor surface above that. Then we finished it off with some recycled content carpet and cork flooring, a pine ceiling, compact fluorescent recessed lighting, a slate fireplace with a small gas-log heater, and a deep red paint on the walls—Winter’s pick."[Wilson, Jeff *The Greened House Effect: Renovating Your Home with a Deep Energy Retrofit*. 2nd ed. Chelsea Green Publishing, 2013.]

22. "Exceptions to this would be rooms below ground level where damp could damage the timber, rooms which were likely to be wet due to their function, eg kitchens and sculleries, and some working class terraced housing built with clay block floors or stone flags. NB For more information on timber see Chapter 11- Timber-Frame Housing. The floor (often referred to as a raised timber floor or suspended floor) consists of a series of joists supported by the loadbearing walls and covered with floorboards."[MBEng, Duncan Marshall BSc MCIOB, and Derek Worthing BSc Mphil MRICS *The Construction of Houses, Fourth Edition*. 4th ed. Estates Gazette Ltd, 2006.]

23. "FIGURE 7. 11 This is a cross section drawing of our basement floor retrofit. Once insulation materials were installed on the sloped concrete floor, I added a level, finished floor above it. Illustration by Matthew Baker. In some situations, very minor water intrusion, either through walls or wicking up through floor slabs, can be handled by installing a layer of drainage mat material as part of a floor and wall retrofit."[Wilson, Jeff *The Greened House Effect: Renovating Your Home with a Deep Energy Retrofit*. 2nd ed. Chelsea Green Publishing, 2013.]

24. "Economy in space often prompts designers to explore the stacking of stairs so that a single shaft accommodates two flights one above the other. Typical applications are twin escape stairs or else the interlocking of dog-leg stairs in maisonette plans. Stairs constructed within solid shafts need more space at landings if furniture has to be manoeuvred through the space, a point that is critical in 'scissors'-type plans employed for maisonette construction."[Blanc, Alan *Internal Components*. Routledge, 1994.]

25. "There should be accessibility to office area and gallery exhibition area(s) as well as to washrooms and cloakroom. Public safety according to government requirements Floor dirt control (especially during winter) by special matts and grilles at entrance doorway Ceiling preferably 4 . 5 m clear height Lighting bright, inviting Walls optional/windowed Security as required; lockable and alarmed H. M E C H A N I C A L SPACE (50 M ) 2 Floor adequate for equipment, absorbers Walls concrete block, other Ceiling optional height Lighting adequate Access standard door Security lockable Power equipment requirement I. CHAIR/AUDIO VISUAL with EQUIPMENT vibration J. K. STORAGE 2 P R O J E C T I O N R O O M A N D S T O R A G E (30 C I R C U L A T I O N (40 M ) 2 3."[(Auth.), VASTA *Conservation & Exhibitions*. Butterworth-Heinemann, 1987.]