Created: 2025-12-19 02:36:20
Origin: searched
Selected: Here is the place for the application of all the knowledge I have acquired. Time assumes another dimension now—work and absorption in the search for an answer. The world around me and my past seem far away and distorted, as if time and space were taffy being stretched and looped and twisted out of shape. The only real things are the cages and the mice and the lab equipment here on the fourth floor of the main building. There is no night or day. I've got to cram a lifetime of research into a few weeks.[Keyes, Daniel *Flowers for Algernon*. Mariner Books, 2005.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Here is the place for the application of all the knowledge I have acquired. Time assumes another dimension now—work and absorption in the search for an answer. The world around me and my past seem far away and distorted, as if time and space were taffy being stretched and looped and twisted out of shape. The only real things are the cages and the mice and the lab equipment here on the fourth floor of the main building. There is no night or day. I've got to cram a lifetime of research into a few weeks."[Keyes, Daniel *Flowers for Algernon*. Mariner Books, 2005.]

02. "Michael is twenty-three years old. He has been a computer primer in this interface crew for eleven years. By now the work is purely automatic for him; he has become simply an extension of the machinery. Drifting along the interface, he boosts or drains, shunts or couples, blends or splits, meeting every need of the computer he serves, and does it all in cool mindless efficiency, operating on reflex alone. There is nothing reprehensible about this. It is not desirable for a primer to think, merely to act correctly; even here in the fifth century of computer technology the human brain is still given a high rating for its information-handling capacity per cubic centimeter, and a properly trained interface crew is in effect a group of ten of these excellent little organically grown computers jacked into the main unit."[Silverberg, Robert *The World Inside*. Doubleday & Co. Inc., 1971.]

03. "My most absorbing interests at the present time are etymologies of ancient languages, the newer works on the calculus of variations, and Hindu history. It's amazing the way things, apparently disconnected, hang together. I've moved up to another plateau, and now the streams of the various disciplines seem to be closer to each other as if they flow from a single source. Strange how when I'm in the college cafeteria and hear the students arguing about history or politics or religion, it all seems so childish. I find no pleasure in discussing ideas any more on such an elementary level. People resent being shown that they don't approach the complexities of the problem— they don't know what exists beyond the surface ripples. It's just as bad on a higher level, and I've given up any attempt to discuss these things with the professors at Beekman. Burt introduced me to an economics professor at the faculty cafeteria, one well known for his work on the economic factors affecting interest rates."[Keyes, Daniel *Flowers for Algernon*. Mariner Books, 2005.]

04. "It is one of my few solitary pleasures and is certainly necessary to the completion of this research. However, by all indications, my own mental deterioration will be quite rapid. I have checked and rechecked my data a dozen times in hope of finding an error, but I am sorry to say the results must stand. Yet, lam grateful for the little bit that I here add to the knowledge of the function of the human mind and of the laws governing the artificial increase of human intelligence. The other night Dr. Strauss was saying that an experimental failure, the disproving of a theory, was as important to the advancement of learning as a success would be."[Keyes, Daniel *Flowers for Algernon*. Mariner Books, 2005.]

05. "Any Internet references contained in this work are current at publication time, but the publisher cannot guarantee that a specific reference will continue or be maintained. Please refer to the publisher’s website for links to current author websites."[Bodine, Michael D. *A Psychic’s Life: What It’s Really Like*. Llewellyn Publications, 2018.]

06. "THE WORK IS PROTECTED BY COPYRIGHT AND/OR OTHER APPLICABLE LAW. ANY USE OF THE WORK OTHER THAN AS AUTHORIZED UNDER THIS LICENSE OR COPYRIGHT LAW IS PROHIBITED. BY EXERCISING ANY RIGHTS TO THE WORK PROVIDED HERE, YOU ACCEPT AND AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE. THE LICENSOR GRANTS YOU THE RIGHTS CONTAINED HERE IN CONSIDERATION OF YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF SUCH TERMS AND CONDITIONS."[Watts, Peter *Behemoth: B-Max & Seppuku*. Tor Books, 2004.]

07. "It's been suggested that they represent axes, and that this proves that these circles were not places of worship, but the focal points of a Cult of the Axe which existed in western Europe in neolithic times. Or the stones may have enclosed a marketplace, and the axial stone was the counter on which goods were traded. I have to say, though, that shopping seems an unlikely motive to me. Proponents of this undeniably imaginative theory make comparisons with shopping malls, which might be seen as the new temples."[McCarthy, Pete *McCarthy's Bar: A Journey of Discovery In Ireland*. Thomas Dunne Books, 2001.]

08. "The process, the completion I found in hanging it up to dry, silently congratulating myself on a job well done. I know this is an abstraction of reality; that I need to work on appreciating the now in a more direct way, rather than living for a future now. This time, however, the darkroom was a million miles away. Confusion burst through my mind like an unpleasant climax, little mind-stars flaring as synapses screamed and spent their load. Love. Anger. Hate. Rage. Love."[Listi, Brad, Kristopher Young, Kate Holden, Tony O'Neill, Carlton Mellick III, and Bradley Sands *Falling From the Sky (Anthology)*. another sky press, 2007.]

09. "I notice the litter. An empty cider can stuffed into a privet hedge here, a screwed up chip wrapper in the gutter there, cigarette butts everywhere on the cracked, grey slabs. As I draw nearer still to the Project, the quantity and variety of this detritus grows. An abandoned shopping trolley half-on and half-off the kerb; fast food cartons; crushed-up fag packets. Beer cans: mostly cheap, strong lager, some stamped flat, others skittering and rolling around in the breeze. I stop at the driveway. The Project is an imposing building: three storeys high, it has ornate brickwork, a high, sloping roof and large stone gateposts."[Smith, Winston *Generation F*. Monday Books, 2011.]

10. "The idea is that it will act as an entrée to the arenas of employment, further education or training, and we require many of them to take this course as part of their ‘licence agreement’. (As opposed to a tenancy agreement, most people living in supported housing have a licence agreement which stipulates the conditions by which they are allowed to live in a given project. The conditions of these agreements are more than often ignored and are only inconsistently and arbitrarily enforced by the Project. )"[Smith, Winston *Generation F*. Monday Books, 2011.]

11. "Each word as it appears on paper takes on a fresh meaning, a literal meaning that is often unnoticed when dropped from the lips in careless conversation. I had a good command of language; I worked with the spoken language every day. To convey spoken ideas is very simple. If you don't know the exact words, a gesture will sometimes take the place of the word you need, and the listener will get the gist of your idea. But on paper, the exact word is needed, and I meant to get through. . . The next ten hours were the most gratifying hours, and the hardest hours I ever worked."[Willeford, Charles *The Woman Chaser*. Thunder's Mouth Press, 2001.]

12. "Brendan tells an amusing anecdote about one of the many love triangles going on between several residents. Karen, the new project manager – Nicola left suddenly last week – turns to me and says, ‘You could write a book about this place, but no one would believe you. ’ I might just do that. Postscript The purpose of this book has been to show that, in my experience, the British supported housing and social care sectors are in chaos. The narrative is based on real events which I have witnessed during several years working in a number of supported housing and care homes at various sites around the UK."[Smith, Winston *Generation F*. Monday Books, 2011.]

13. "Title. Book design by Marysarah Quinn This is a work of ﬁction. Names, characters, places, and incidents either are the product of the author’s imagination or are used ﬁctitiously, and any resemblance to actual persons, living or dead, businesses, companies, events, or locales is entirely coincidental. While the author has made every effort to provide accurate telephone numbers and Internet addresses at the time of publication, neither the publisher nor the author assumes any responsibility for errors, or for changes that occur after publication."[*The Front* Putnam Adult, 2008.]

14. "Work continued to be OK, if not riveting. Spurred on by my newfound positivity, I found the wherewithal to leave the YTS Training Centre, and got a new and interesting job at Northwick Park Hospital, working in occupational therapy. My role was to use computers to ascertain patients’ cognitive skills after they had suffered a head trauma or stroke, which is perhaps why the word ‘stroke’ still has such serious connotations for me."[Holland, Nigel *The 50 List – a Father's Heartfelt Message to his Daughter. Anything Is Possible*. HarperCollins Publishers;HarperCollins, 2013.]

15. "Flashing staccatos at each extremity, little blinking beacons that announce the tips of scaffolds, antennae, danger zones βehemoth 162 Peter Watts where hot fluids might vent without warning. The baleful, unwavering glare of floodlights around airlocks and docking hatches and loading bays, reignited for today's exercise. Pale auras of wasted light from a hundred parabolic viewports. Twilit expanses of hull where every protuberance casts three or four shadows, dimly lit by lamps installed in more distant and glamorous neighborhoods."[Watts, Peter *Behemoth: B-Max & Seppuku*. Tor Books, 2004.]