Created: 2025-12-18 23:21:29
Origin: searched
Selected: Thus, meanings are discovered, coming out of this particular kind of engagement, and places come into being through being involved with the activity itself. This approach differs from one that takes meaning to be overlaid upon the physical world, as if it were possible to take yourself out of it, and to place yourself above its surface. As an anthropologist, I have been working alongside generalists, art historians, architects, artists, students and teachers as part of a larger interdisciplinary project, Learning Is Understanding in Practice: Exploring the Interrelations between Perception, Creativity and Skill. 1 The research project combines approaches from art and anthropology to examine the interrelations between perception, creativity and skill, through a study of the knowledge practices of fine art.[(ed.), Cristina Grasseni *Skilled Visions: Between Apprenticeship and Standards*. Berghahn Books, 2007.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Thus, meanings are discovered, coming out of this particular kind of engagement, and places come into being through being involved with the activity itself. This approach differs from one that takes meaning to be overlaid upon the physical world, as if it were possible to take yourself out of it, and to place yourself above its surface. As an anthropologist, I have been working alongside generalists, art historians, architects, artists, students and teachers as part of a larger interdisciplinary project, Learning Is Understanding in Practice: Exploring the Interrelations between Perception, Creativity and Skill. 1 The research project combines approaches from art and anthropology to examine the interrelations between perception, creativity and skill, through a study of the knowledge practices of fine art."[(ed.), Cristina Grasseni *Skilled Visions: Between Apprenticeship and Standards*. Berghahn Books, 2007.]

02. "On a definite, normative type of statement?I found formulations of levels that were much too different and functions that were much too heterogeneous to be linked together and arranged in a single figure, and to simulate, from one period to another, beyond individual oeuvres, a sort of great uninterrupted text. On a well-defined alphabet of notions?One is con-fronted with concepts that differ in structure and in the rules govern-ing their use, which ignore or exclude one another, and which cannot enter the unity of a logical architecture."[Foucault, Michel *The Archaeology of Knowledge*. 2nd. London; New York: Routledge, 2002.]

03. "As he explains later in his methodological study The Archaeology of Knowledge: the great problem presented by such historical analyses is not how contin uities are established . . . the problem is no longer one of tradition, of tracing a line, but one of division, of limits; it is no longer one of lasting foundations, but one of transformations that serve as new foundations, the rebuilding of foundations. (AKDL: 5) We shall return to this idea later, but it is worth recognizi ng one of the motivations for his emphasis on discontinuity."[May, Todd *The philosophy of Foucault*. Acumen, 2006.]

04. "Many use the terms deconstruction and critique interchangeably, in such a way that an author will switch between talking of their work as deconstruction and as critique. To 42 Organization Theory and Postmodern Thought choose one from many possible examples, in the opening lines of his paper ‘The concept of decision: a deconstructive analysis’, Chia writes ‘In this paper, I attempt a critical study of the concept of decision’ (Chia, 1994: 781, emphasis added; for other particularly clear examples see Chia, 1996: 177; Feldman, 1998: 59; Hassard, 1993: 11, 1994: 312; Mumby and Stohl, 1991: 318)."[Linstead, Stephen Andrew *Organization Theory and Postmodern Thought*. Sage Publications Ltd, 2003.]

05. "One describes it rather as a unity of distribution that opens a field of possible options, and enables ((74)) various mutually exclusive architectures to appear side by side or in turn. 2. But all the possible alternatives are not in fact realized: there are a good many partial groups, regional compatibilities, and coherent architectures that might have emerged, yet did not do so. In order to account for the choices that were made out of all those that could have been made (and those alone), one must describe the specific authorities that guided one's choice."[Foucault, Michel *The Archaeology of Knowledge*. 2nd. London; New York: Routledge, 2002.]

06. "There have been different names given to the practice that grounds anthropology in empirical work. The names from the past—fieldwork, participant observation—are no longer adequate to the practice I am seeking to conceptualize. Regardless of how one might best characterize this practice (a topic to which I return below), it eventually passes through one or another form of figuration, especially writing. The traditional name for that practice of figuration is ethnography, but that term is inadequate and misleading, at least as concerns my enterprise."[Rabinow, Paul *Anthropos Today: Reflections on Modern Equipment (In-Formation)*. Princeton University Press, 2003.]

07. "Recognising that the body is learning from its context, translation of embodied knowledge gained through drawing and making objects is not simply a process of copying information (Bateson 1958: 286). Movement between places and from one form to another in translation is central to understanding the interrelationships between speaking, writing, drawing and imaging, in specific contexts of interaction. Amy and Jan’s sketchbooks highlight the way that speaking, writing, drawing and imagings are interwoven through the performative act within situated contexts of learning."[(ed.), Cristina Grasseni *Skilled Visions: Between Apprenticeship and Standards*. Berghahn Books, 2007.]

08. "Skilled visions often rely on collaborative expertise and on a distribution of cognitive artefacts that are made available and relevant in the landscape of one’s practice – or taskscape (Ingold 1993). They often entail a capacity to discriminate: one may well isolate one trait from the flux of one’s sensorial experience, if this is more relevant or fundamental to one’s taskscape. Skilled visions cannot be associated solely with the use of specific visual media, or with image-making processes (video, film, digital photography, paper, wood, or imaging software)."[(ed.), Cristina Grasseni *Skilled Visions: Between Apprenticeship and Standards*. Berghahn Books, 2007.]

09. "Research on intersensory development can add another twist to this scenario, one that differs from arguments centred on structures, forms, and development, for the question arises of whether this structural synesthesia is actually a true union of the senses, the site of oneness (or even a common sense). That is, the question of the one and the multiple invariably returns, and as one reaches for the site of the one, the unified senses, one discovers that structural, formal synesthesia is a loose, disjointed affair, already differentiated and coordinated."[Massumi, Brian *A Shock to Thought: Expressions After Deleuze and Guattari (Philosophy & Cultural Studies)*. 2002.]

10. "This arbitrariness is damaging just in its own right. However, I believe that it becomes absolutely fatal when language-of-thought functionalism tries to define the relationships between thought and sensation and between thought and the properties of external objects. To succeed at this, one must reject the representation- alism implicit in the language-of-thought theory and adopt instead a form of realism. 30. There is some question about whether it is valid to expand the embedded occurrences of "thinking '; for example, such expansion overlooks the phenomenon of the paradox of analysis."[French P.A., Uehling, Jr. T.E., and Wettstein H.K. *Causation and Causal Theories*. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 1984.]

11. "But can one not do more than this ?Can one not, by a further and more resolute effort, install oneself in the total relatedness within the room. spatial relatedness intrinsic to that ?which one reflec- Can one not imaginatively contemplates expand or contract oneself and fit oneself as record, so as to be> to the thing, room, cube, or what not of intrinsic one its total with pro hoc, spatial system relatedness ?I have been told by an architect (when tively my uncouth phraseology) that this is in his profession who are worth their what those just "One must somehow/' salt do as a matter of course."[Morgan, C. Lloyd *Emergent Evolution*. Holt & Co, 1923.]

12. "It carries over the qualities of appearance of one material into another: every order of columns, for ex- ample, imitates building in wood; it carries over the characteristics of one building into another. ”28 In this mode of thought, architecture was treated as a self-sufficient organism which in the process of self-articulation imitated only itself. Regarded as an organism, architecture became a complex fragment in the process of becoming. This, I believe, is the historical origin of all later discussions concerning the autonomy of architecture as well as of the problematic tradition of organic architecture."[Vesely, Dalibor *Architecture in the Age of Divided Representation: The Question of Creativity in the Shadow of Production*. The MIT Press, 2004.]

13. "‘And if one tries to play this game in any way other than in thought, nothing takes place, and if one tries to produce anything other than a work of art, nothing is produced’ (LS 76). Deleuze’s own books, then, must be conceived of as works of art, and his thought as a nomadic distribution of singular points. My emphasis has been on the continuity of his thought, but it is clear that Deleuze is not a systematic philosopher (unless by that one means a builder of multiple system-worlds, like Borges)."[Bogue, Ronald *Deleuze and Guattari (Critics of the Twentieth Century)*. Routledge, 1989.]

14. "For one reason or another, it lays out a kind of space where, more than any other, the different ‘human sciences’ run alongside one another, and do so closely because on a restricted surface” (18, 12). Within this space, film can become a variety of objects, depending upon the disciplinary perspective that predominates; it is according to method, then, that it possibly becomes one of a variety of objects, say, a discursive one. On one hand, it is normal that semiology would draw support from the data (but not the methods) produced by neighboring disciplines in the human sciences; on the other, the structural analysis of fi lm must stake a claim to its 167 An Object, a Method, a Domain proper domain—the fi lm as a “total signifying-object” (Language and Cinema 19)."[Rodowick, D. N. *Elegy for Theory*. Harvard University Press, 2014.]

15. "One has to create one’s own understanding of the problem. A holistic view cannot be delegated to an instrument. Let us move away from the world of systems development and look at work methods for problem-solving in other contexts. The philosopher Hans Larsson (1862–1944) offers perspectives on work methods in scientific research, where, on the one hand, clarity can be achieved (a synthesis created) by collecting and having a good command of scientific material, but . . . This is, however, only one side of the development we have in the current discussion on the progression from material that has already been studied, and its details clarified, to a synthesis."[Goranzon, Bo, Richard Ennals, and Maria Hammeron *Dialogue, Skill and Tacit Knowledge*. 2006.]