Created: 2025-12-19 16:01:25
Origin: suggested
Selected: As mentioned earlier set theory provides a general conceptual framework for mathematics. Now, since category theory, through the notion of topos, has succeeded in axiomatising set-theory, the outcome is an entirely new categorial foundation of mathematicsl The category- theorists attitude that "function" rather than "set membership" can be seen as the fundamental mathematical concept has been entirely vindicated. The pre-eminent role of set theory in contemporary mathematics is suddenly challenged.[Goldblatt, Robert *Topoi: The Categorial Analysis of Logic*. Revised. Amsterdam ; New York ; North-Holland ; New York, N.Y: Elsevier, 1984.]

--- Context List ---
01. "The same difficulty faces Bunge's position. Bunge [1979] produces both a general and a more specific account of a system. In general a system ~ = over a non-null set T, where «C C T) & (E C T)) & (C n E = C/J) and where S is a non-null set of relations on CUE. A conceptual system is defined where T is a set of conceptual particulars; a concrete system is defined if T is a set of concrete particulars."[(auth.), Joseph Wayne Smith *Reductionism and Cultural Being: A Philosophical Critique of Sociobiological Reductionism and Physicalist Scientific Unificationism*. Springer Netherlands, 1984.]

02. "The number of these constraints grows exponentially with the number of dimensions. Each modification of a concept’s description would then involve a large constraint satisfaction problem, rendering this representation unsuitable for learning processes. Our cuboid-based approach is more coarse-grained, but it only involves a single constraint, namely that the intersection of the cuboids is not empty. Lewis and Lawry (2016) formalize conceptual spaces using random set theory. A random set can be characterized by a set of prototypical points P and a threshold ."[Kaipainen, Mauri, Frank Zenker, Antti Hautamäki, and Peter Gärdenfors *Conceptual Spaces: Elaborations and Applications*. Springer International Publishing, 2019.]

03. "Seen in this way, topos theory stands not so much as a rival to set theory per se as an alternative to formalised set theory in presenting a rigorous explication, a foundation, of our intuitive notion of "set". One of the most significant achievements of topos theory is to have crystallised the core of basic set theory in one concept that is manifest in such hitherto diverse contexts. Thus we can apply the "set of points" notion and our familiarity with it to the structures of algebraic geometry, intuitionistic logic, and monoid representations."[Goldblatt, Robert *Topoi: The Categorial Analysis of Logic*. Revised. Amsterdam ; New York ; North-Holland ; New York, N.Y: Elsevier, 1984.]

04. "Finite-state machines (deterministic or probabilistic), Markov chains, and differential equations with constant coefficients are examples of generative systems. Each of them characterizes a relation among the variables involved, which does not change within the relevant support set (time or space set). This relation makes it possible to generate specific data sets, one for each initial or boundary condition and for a given support set. Observe, for example, that the solution of a set of differential equations for specific initial or boundary conditions represents a data set (a function of time or space)."[(auth.), George J. Klir *Facets of Systems Science*. 2nd ed. Springer US, 2001.]

05. "Every finite set is isomorphic to some finite ordinal (A = n if A has n elements). Hence all categorial constructions in Finset "transfer" into Finord (as we have already observed for product, exponentials). The subobject classifier in Finord is the same function true : {0} -> {0,1} as in Finset and Set. Example 4. Set2, the category of pairs of sets is a topos. All constructions are obtained by "doubling up" the corresponding constructions in Set (cf. Example 10, §2. 5). A terminal object is a pair ({0}, {0}) of singleton sets."[Goldblatt, Robert *Topoi: The Categorial Analysis of Logic*. Revised. Amsterdam ; New York ; North-Holland ; New York, N.Y: Elsevier, 1984.]

06. "I had given an obvious justification of this axiom by applying the idealized sense of overviewing together or running through all members of a given set. Suppose we are given a set and a one-one correlation between the members of the set and certain other given sets. If we put, for each Set Theory and Logic as Concept Theory 259 element of the set, its corresponding set in its place, we are able to run through the resulting collection as well."[Wang, Hao *A Logical Journey: From Godel to Philosophy*. Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1996.]

07. "Eventually, we must reach something that belongs to the set but that itself has no members that can be discerned from within that set—the empty set, or “urelement. ” In the metamathematical applications of ontology, this member or urelement can be anything at all, so long as it is deﬁned as having no members in common with the set. Elementary particles might act as urelements in certain physical situations; so could an individual phoneme, say, in linguistic situations made up of sets of phonemes. Finally, the number of possible ways of grouping together the elements of a set—the number of parts, or subsets of the set—is obviously larger than the number of elements themselves."[Hallward, Peter *Badiou: A Subject To Truth*. Univ Of Minnesota Press, 2003.]

08. "If a variable is not numerical, its state set usually possesses a natural ordering relation. Moreover, elements of a given state set or support set are often induced by an equivalence relation on some underlying set. In addition to the mentioned relations, most state sets and support sets involve relations that define measurement scales of the associated variable or supports. Each scale is characterized by a particular functional form that describes how measurements expressed in one measurement unit are converted to their counterparts in another measurement."[(auth.), George J. Klir *Facets of Systems Science*. 2nd ed. Springer US, 2001.]

09. "As mentioned earlier set theory provides a general conceptual framework for mathematics. Now, since category theory, through the notion of topos, has succeeded in axiomatising set-theory, the outcome is an entirely new categorial foundation of mathematicsl The category- theorists attitude that "function" rather than "set membership" can be seen as the fundamental mathematical concept has been entirely vindicated. The pre-eminent role of set theory in contemporary mathematics is suddenly challenged."[Goldblatt, Robert *Topoi: The Categorial Analysis of Logic*. Revised. Amsterdam ; New York ; North-Holland ; New York, N.Y: Elsevier, 1984.]

10. "So while every “constructible set has a special character—the steps by which it can be constructed,” a generic set will “lack any such individuality. ”79 By contrast with a constructible set, a generic set is one characterized by “the least possible information”80: as a result, the gap between presentation and re-presentation in such a set will prove to be literally immeasurable. In order to formulate a model of set theory in which CH does not hold, we begin by positing a constructible “ground model” M that reﬂects the characteristic features of the theory, where M includes a denumerably inﬁnite set (i. e. , one whose members include all the natural numbers up to and including the limit ordinal ω 0 , along with its constructible subsets), where M is transitive (i. e. , if x belongs to a member of M and y belongs x, then y Appendix / 343 will belong to M), and in which CH is presumed to be true."[Hallward, Peter *Badiou: A Subject To Truth*. Univ Of Minnesota Press, 2003.]

11. "A set with nine members has 512 (i. e. , 29) parts. But with an inﬁnite set⎯and all human situations are inﬁnite⎯the excess of parts over elements is, thanks to the undecidability of the continuum hypothesis, properly immeasurable. So are the ontological consequences Badiou draws from this excess. This gap between α (a set that counts as one its members or elements) and the set of its subsets p(α) (a set that counts as one its included parts or subsets) indicates precisely “the point at which lies the impasse of being” (EE, 97; cf."[Hallward, Peter *Badiou: A Subject To Truth*. Univ Of Minnesota Press, 2003.]

12. "For example natural numbers, ordered pairs, relations and functions can be defined just as in classical set theory. The notion of class and the notation associated with it is a convenient tool in informal classical set theory which also carries over without difficulty to the informal development of CZF. The iterative notion of set: A constructive version The type theoretic interpretation of constructive set theory may be found in detail in [2]."[Barcan-Marcus, Ruth, George J. W. Dorn, and Paul Weingartner *Logic, Methodology and Philosophy of Science, VII: International Congress Proceedings: 7th*. North-Holland, 1986.]

13. "We may, of course, order the books in various other ways (by publication dates, by their size, etc. ), which result in different systems. We may also partition the books by various criteria (subjects, publishers, languages, etc. )and obtain thus additional systems since every partition of a set emerges from a particular equivalence relation defined on the set. Observe now that a relation defined on a particular set of books, say the ordering by publication dates, may be applied not only to other sets of books, but also to sets whose elements are not books."[(auth.), George J. Klir *Facets of Systems Science*. 2nd ed. Springer US, 2001.]

14. "John von Neumann, “An Axiomatization of Set Theory” [1925], in From Frege to Gödel: A Source Book in Mathematical Logic, 1879–1931, ed. Jean van Heijenoort, Source Books in the History of the Sciences (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1967), 396. Ibid. Kuratowski and Mostowski observe: “In the course of the polemic which arose over the antinomies it became obvious that different mathematicians had different concept [sic] of sets. As a result it became impossible to base set theory on intuition. . . . it became clear that there is no unique intuitive notion of a set”. K. Kuratowski and A. Mostowski, Set Theory: With an Introduction to Descriptive Set Theory, Studies in Logic and the Foundations of Mathematics 86 (Amsterdam: North-Holland, 1976), 5 and 54. Axiomatization, says Enderton, “is not so much a way of answering foundational questions about the objects as it is a way of circumventing them”. Herbert B. Enderton, Elements of Set Theory (New York: Academic Press, 1977), 125."[(ed.), Daniel D. Novotný, and Lukás Novák (ed.) *Neo-Aristotelian Perspectives in Metaphysics*. Routledge, 2014.]

15. " COMPLICIAL SETS, AN OVERTURE EMILY RIEHL Abstract. The aim of these notes is to introduce the intuition motivating the notion of a complicial set, a simplicial set with certain marked “thin” simplices that witness a composition relation between the simplices on their boundary. By varying the marking conventions, complicial sets can be used to model (∞, n)-categories for each n ≥ 0, including n = ∞. For this reason, complicial sets present a fertile setting for thinking about weak infinite dimensional categories in varying dimensions."[Riehl, Emily *Complicial sets, an ouverture*. version 19 Dec 2016. 2016.]