Created: 2025-11-07 12:20:16
Origin: suggested
Selected: Configuration becomes the inscription of an enduring object. He also transposes the notions of concordance and discordance, so central to his analysis of narrative, to architectural use of “irregular regularities. ”15 The architect has the same intention of discordant coherence that the narrator does in composing a story. Similarly, like a fictional work, an architectural work is a “polyphonic message. ” The phenomenon of inter-textuality applies to space also, namely the “reservoir of edifices” that provide the context for new buildings.[(eds.), Bruce B. Janz <i>Place, Space and Hermeneutics</i>. Springer International Publishing, 2017.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Configuration becomes the inscription of an enduring object. He also transposes the notions of concordance and discordance, so central to his analysis of narrative, to architectural use of “irregular regularities. ”15 The architect has the same intention of discordant coherence that the narrator does in composing a story. Similarly, like a fictional work, an architectural work is a “polyphonic message. ” The phenomenon of inter-textuality applies to space also, namely the “reservoir of edifices” that provide the context for new buildings."[(eds.), Bruce B. Janz <i>Place, Space and Hermeneutics</i>. Springer International Publishing, 2017.]

02. "My speculation on the relation between architecture and photography is only a step in the direction of a more comprehensive critique of current architectural discourse; its theorization has yet to be taken up in a more comprehensive fashion. If, as Howard Caygill notes, in the most sustained treatment of Benjamin’s speculation on architecture to date, “all experience for Benjamin is technological, since the term technology designates the artificial organization of perception,”61 and if architecture for Benjamin is a “concrete a priori,” or “canonical art form,” and therefore the most effective means to technologically organize experience, then it warrants and indeed requires a media theory."[Hartoonian, Gevork <i>Walter Benjamin and architecture</i>. London, New York: Routledge, 2010.]

03. "Contents Introduction Breaking Boundaries: Towards a Global Theory of Architectural Representation Eric Roose Chapter 1 The Architectural Representation of Reality: The Built Environment as the Materialization of a Mental Construct Aart Mekking Chapter 2 The Architectural Representation of Islam: Saintly Brilliance in the New Design for the Amsterdam Taibah Mosque Eric Roose Chapter 3 The Architectural Representation of Paradise: Sufi Cosmology and the Four-ı̄wān Plan Elena Paskaleva Chapter 4 The Architectural Representation of Taboo: Toilet Taboos as Guardians of Old Taiwanese Representations of Family Life En-Yu Huang Chapter 5 The Architectural Representation of Diversity: Changing Scopes to Meet Changing Realities in The Hague’s Transvaal Neighbourhood Aart Mekking 7 23 51 95 141 173 List of Contributors 207 Classified Index 209 5 Introduction Breaking Boundaries: Towards a Global Theory of Architectural Representation Eric Roose In a world that is growing smaller by the day, we are left with architectural tools that no longer suffice for the description, the interpretation, and certainly not the creation of a built environment that holds the increasingly diverse communities within today’s complex social situations."[Aart J.J. Mekking, Eric Roose <i>The Global Built Environment as a Representation of Realities: Why and How Architecture Should Be the Subject of Worldwide Comparison</i>. 2009.]

04. "By the same token, however, we should guard against reading Benjamin too optimistically as assuming that the anaesthetization and alienation wreaked by technology on the human sensorium could be overcome. 13 Hansen’s last comment is instructive in guarding against the often over-optimistic, and even euphoric, reading of the role of new technology in architecture. It contains an important critical lesson that has yet to be investigated and integrated into the contemporary architectural discourse. Let me close this prologue by setting the terms under which the actuality of Benjamin can be claimed, including the legacy of his “media theory” and its possible implications for architecture as a form of “media. ” I shall return to this point in my afterword."[Hartoonian, Gevork <i>Walter Benjamin and architecture</i>. London, New York: Routledge, 2010.]

05. "Today, architecture is being reduced to the practice of “building images. ”60 In a society saturated by images, the aesthetic practice of architecture has increasingly become “photogenic. ” Against this, it should rather become “photographic,” in the sense I elaborated above. From the misguided idea of architecture as “Sign” in its different variations in the 1970s, the discourse of building has merely moved towards another version as “ image-making,” or “hyperbuilding,” conceived as a form of “media. ” The resulting anaestheticization is the consequence of a failure to “reimagine the aesthetic” of building within the paradigm of the new technology."[Hartoonian, Gevork <i>Walter Benjamin and architecture</i>. London, New York: Routledge, 2010.]

06. "Edinburgh: Floris. Davey, N. 1999. The Hermeneutics of Seeing. In Interpreting Visual Culture, ed. I. Heywood and B. Sandywell, 3–29. London: Routledge. Gadamer, H. -G. 1989. Truth and Method. London: Sheed and Ward. Hale, J. A. 2000. Building Ideas: An Introduction to Architectural Theory, 213–224. New York: Wiley. Harries, K. 1988. Voices of Space. Center 4: 34–39. ———. 1993. Thoughts on a Non-arbitrary Architecture. In Dwelling, Seeing and Designing, ed. D. Seamon, 41–60. Albany: State University of New York Press. ———."[(eds.), Bruce B. Janz <i>Place, Space and Hermeneutics</i>. Springer International Publishing, 2017.]

07. "Fundamental to this distanciation is architecture’s internalization of technique through recollection of the tectonic. What this entails is that a discussion of ‘image’, as one consequence of the introduction of mediatic technologies into architectural discipline, although it has proliferated diverse and innovative approaches to design, nevertheless dismisses the culture of building, thus putting limitations on the scope of criticism. To speak of the tectonic relationship between column and wall, for example, does not mean to dismiss the perceptual realm offered by the mediatic technologies."[Hartoonian, Gevork <i>Walter Benjamin and architecture</i>. London, New York: Routledge, 2010.]

08. "Each 36 The Architectural Representation of Reality of those traditions is, in fact, a reinterpretation of one or more pre-existing ones, although patrons and architects often prefer to represent them as new. The connection between this second stratum and an underlying long-cycle tradition is, as one would expect from any representation, not logical but transversal. Before proposing five representational clusters into which to roughly group these shorter-cycle traditions so they become accessible to research, it seems useful to adjust the conventional paradigm of the analysis of worldwide building."[Aart J.J. Mekking, Eric Roose <i>The Global Built Environment as a Representation of Realities: Why and How Architecture Should Be the Subject of Worldwide Comparison</i>. 2009.]

09. "Conversely, architecture as a discipline focuses on the permanence of the architectural object and the myth of its perfectability. DeLanda’s synthetic understanding of cities is inherently destabilizing to architecture because it elevates material factors to the same level as cultural production. The current fascination with fluidity may serve as a catalyst toward a new understanding of architectural processes. However, the preoccupation with representations of fluidity as built form restricts us to rigidly conventional architectural discourse."[Vincent James, Jennifer Yoos <i>VJAA: Vincent James Associates Architects</i>. Princeton Architectural Press, 2006.]

10. "Ultimately, the architectural languages of Jones, Harries, and Thiis-Evensen are all provocative hermeneutical explications. They demonstrate the prolific interpretive possibilities that a text—in this case, architecture—offers. They demonstrate that, as with any hermeneutical project, the understanding of any text is multivalent, always underway, and never complete. The work of these three architectural thinkers is inspiring and motivates researchers to forge other innovative hermeneutic renditions of architectural expression, experience, and meaning. References Alexander, C. 2002–2005. The Nature of Order, 4 vols. Berkeley: Center for Environmental Structure. Assefa, E. M. , and D. Seamon. 2007. Karsten Harries’ Natural Symbols as a Means for Interpreting Architecture: Inside and Outside in Frank Lloyd Wright’s Fallingwater and Alvar Aalto’s Villa Mairea. Wolkenkuckucksheim 12(1): 1–7. Bortoft, H. 1996. The Wholeness of Nature. Edinburgh: Floris. ———. 2012. Taking Appearance Seriously."[(eds.), Bruce B. Janz <i>Place, Space and Hermeneutics</i>. Springer International Publishing, 2017.]