Created: 2025-12-19 14:03:16
Origin: searched
Selected: This last notion follows a univocalization of mimesis, indeed a univocalization of being, in which image and original are congealed into a too fixed one-to-one correspondence. Mimesis is a relation, and hence has a dynamic of relating at work in it. The complexity of the relation has to do less with some univocal visual mirroring than a balanced relativity between an image and an original. That relation is double rather than univocal, indeed plurivocal in that an openness is necessarily inserted between original and image.[Desmond, William *Art, Origins, Otherness: Between Philosophy and Art  (Paperback) - Common*. Albany: State University of New York Press, 2003.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Part I  Collaboration Chapter 1  Multimodality and Architectural  Collaboration  Ju Hyun Lee  Keywords Design collaboration · Design process · Communication · Representation  1. 1  Introduction  The rapid advancement in information and communication technologies is fundamentally reshaping our creative industry, redefining the way we create, access, and  trade goods and services. This digital transformation also poses new challenges to  our traditional methods of design collaboration in the Architecture, Construction and "[INPUT: Lee et al. - 2024 - Multimodality in Architecture Collaboration, Technology and Education.pdf]

02. "Keywords Multimodal design · Participatory design · Immersive virtual  environment · Design visualisation M. J. Ostwald envelope symbol School of Built Environment, Faculty of Arts, Design and Architecture, The University of New  South Wales, Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia  e-mail: m. ostwald@unsw. edu. au  S. Thurow · D. Del Favero · M. Scott-Mitchell  iCinema Research Centre, Faculty of Arts, Design and Architecture, The University of New South  Wales, Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia  © The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2024  J. H. Lee et al. (eds. ), Multimodality in Architecture,  https://doi. org/10. 1007/978-3-031-49511-3_7  113 "[INPUT: Lee et al. - 2024 - Multimodality in Architecture Collaboration, Technology and Education.pdf]

03. "In: Architectural information management. 19th eCAADe conference proceedings,  pp 472–478  Schnabel MA, Kvan T (2003) Spatial understanding in immersive virtual environments. Int J Archit  Comput 4(1):435–448  Schultz C, Bhatt M (2012) Multimodal spatial data access for architecture design assistance. AI  EDAM 26(2):177–203  Sedivy J, Johnson H (2000) Multimodal tool support for creative tasks in the visual arts. KnowlBased Syst 13:441–450  Shanthi Priya R, Shabitha P, Radhakrishnan S (2020) Collaborative and participatory design  approach in architectural design studios."[INPUT: Lee et al. - 2024 - Multimodality in Architecture Collaboration, Technology and Education.pdf]

04. "That is, nothing has yet been written concerning the pairing of the concepts of ‘representation’ and ‘presentation’ in relation to the image in Deleuze, yet this is crucial to an understanding of the nature of the image. The purpose of this chapter is to look at the role of the image, from a cognitive perspective, as an interaction between notions of ‘presentation’ and ‘representation’, and to use this distinction in order to begin to develop an understanding of how the image might work in art."[Uhlmann, Anthony *Samuel Beckett and the Philosophical Image*. 2007.]

05. "Further, the image as presentation has at least two possible forms: a) the extracted image, the autonomous mental image (in the manner of Francis Bacon), and b) the direct presentation, the nonrepresented image (in the manner of Proust). One can compare this with the Stoic understanding, which we will encounter in chapter 7, and which strongly attracts Deleuze, who uses it extensively in The Logic of Sense."[Uhlmann, Anthony *Samuel Beckett and the Philosophical Image*. 2007.]

06. "This last notion follows a univocalization of mimesis, indeed a univocalization of being, in which image and original are congealed into a too fixed one-to-one correspondence. Mimesis is a relation, and hence has a dynamic of relating at work in it. The complexity of the relation has to do less with some univocal visual mirroring than a balanced relativity between an image and an original. That relation is double rather than univocal, indeed plurivocal in that an openness is necessarily inserted between original and image."[Desmond, William *Art, Origins, Otherness: Between Philosophy and Art  (Paperback) - Common*. Albany: State University of New York Press, 2003.]

07. "The DVTD is a multimodal speech act which coherently articulates the different sign systems available, in this case study, in an online paper which organizes the audiovisual production. This results in the recognition of a process of meaning-making that exceeds the discourse itself and articulates the technological resources involved; it also creates an aesthetic that grants specific features to discursive expressions. Most recent practices in documentary video production, via the TD genre, potentially use the resource of intertextuality through the articulation of moving image and still/moving image, whose origins were not necessarily foreseen as part of the new unit of meaning."[Bankov, Kristian, and Paul Cobley *Semiotics and its masters. Volume 1.*. Berlin: Walter de Gruyter & Co., 2017.]

08. "From this perspective, design is simply speculative without an understanding of how and why it works; theory makes design real, because it places design in a context that explains it. Whichever position we hold, though, a working relationship between theoretical understanding and design practice is crucial. In this spirit, the theoretical explorations of the last few chapters are intended to ground design efforts in a variety of ways to be explored here. First, they should provide a common vocabulary and conceptual apparatus for thinking about design opportunities and design features."[Dourish, Paul *Where the Action Is: The Foundations of Embodied Interaction (Bradford Books)*. The MIT Press, 2001.]

09. "123  and intelligible. This fourfold can be extended to  “space” and “time. ” The image provides a “verse”  through entropie and syntropic time; within the  “face” of the image, both directions are simultaneously present: the image acts as a fulcrum or as a focal point to which time converges and from which  it departs. 39 Simultaneously, it articulates a here and  there, an outside and an inside, a closeness (philid)  and a distance (xenid). 40 As a “thought in act,” the image “is not the expression of a subjectivity but the  reality of a composition with something that one is  not!"[INPUT: Villa - 2024 - Upon entropy architectonics of the image in the a.pdf]

10. "The virtual is implicit in Deleuze's discussion of the image, but comes increasingly to the fore as he details the perception-image, action-image and affection-image; for these images are sorted according to their unfolding of a relation between actual and virtual. At its 'purest' perception would be fully actual; eye and image would coincide, there would be no idea of, or perception of, what is imaged. There would be nothing other than the meeting point of eye and light. But such a non-relational, immediate and full image is not what we usually understand by perception (and the whole point of Deleuze's emphasis on life as imaging is that we are always dealing with perceptions that are relational, directed 58 THE MOVEMENT-IMAGE with some anticipation or virtual surplus)."[Colebrook, Claire *Deleuze: A Guide for the Perplexed*. Continuum, 2006.]

11. "It is the pure image (the schema is a non-sensible image) by which, in general, an image is possible, that is, by which the unity and unicity of a representation are possible. The subject produces unity—that is, its own unity as subject-of-arepresentation—as successive. That is its primary schematism, or its pure imagination, the condition of possibility of any image, of any (re)presentation: the condition for their being an image, and not a Masked Imagination 81 chaotic flux (without this singular image being simply one and unified: what it does, simply, is present itself)."[Nancy, Jean-Luc *The Ground of the Image*. New York: Fordham University Press, 2005.]

12. "Often the reverse phenomenon, that of concept leading image, is construed either as exemplification of a conceptual claim (or hypothesis), or else as mere decoration. However, there are subtleties here too. On occasion the cumulative weight of concepts preceding the presentation of an image gives point to describing the passage as one in which concept leads image, nevertheless the image itself may have the power to modify our way of seeing the domain specified by the concepts—an example no doubt, but a telling one."[Warner, Martin *The Aesthetics of Argument*. Hardcover. Oxford University Press, USA, 2016.]

13. "Readers are encouraged to follow up the references at the end of this chapter. When developing a scheme of information design in a given context, designers should realize that they are developing visual ‘languages’. The visual language of information design is an important part of these. Designers will imbue colours, shapes and layouts with meanings that people have to come to understand. 24. 2 Metaphors in design Section 10. 2 discusses metaphor Another key aspect of information design is finding an appropriate metaphor."[Benyon, David, Phil Turner, and Susan Turner *Designing Interactive Systems: People, Activities, Contexts, Technologies*. Addison Wesley, 2005.]

14. "By holistic, I mean that it sees interaction within a larger frame, often a cultural frame, and recognizes that an interactive artifact must be designed as a part of this larger system. By expressive, I mean that it recognizes the ways in which design and design motifs express systems of values. Design communicates . So a key component of interaction design involves considering the message that the design should communicate and how this relates both to the task at hand and to the details of the design."[Dourish, Paul *Where the Action Is: The Foundations of Embodied Interaction (Bradford Books)*. The MIT Press, 2001.]

15. "These specific cases are the strongest candidates for useful applications in multiple design contexts. Design actions, design patterns, and interaction metaphors provide non-prescriptive frameworks for design thinking (iv). 6. 2 Goals of Ubimus Design Ubiquitous music (ubimus) research (Keller et al. 2011a) has also targeted aspects of interaction design that have not been dealt with within the mainstream humancomputer interaction perspectives. Ubiquitous music deals with systems of human agents and material resources that afford musical activities through sustainable creativity support tools."[Zagalo, Nelson, and Pedro Branco (eds.) *Creativity in the Digital Age*. Springer-Verlag London, 2015.]