Created: 2025-12-12 20:14:40
Origin: searched
Selected: The task before us is not simply to make things or to resolve relations into things, more and 182 – 183 The Thing more minutely framed and microscopically understood; rather, it may be to liberate matter from the constraint, the practicality, the utility of the thing, to orient technology not so much to knowing and mediating as to experience and the rich indeterminacy of duration. Instead of merely understanding the thing and the technologies it induces through intellect, perhaps we can also develop an acquaintance with things through intuition, that Bergsonian internal and intimate apprehension of the unique particularity of things, their constitutive interconnections, and the time within which things exist. 22 The issue is not, of course, to abandon or even necessarily to criticize technologies, architecture, or the pragmatics of the thing, but rather, with Bergson, to understand both their limits and their residues.[Grosz, Elizabeth *Architecture from the Outside: Essays on Virtual and Real Space (Writing Architecture)*. 2001.]

--- Context List ---
01. "O. y. g. A subsequent sequence will be devoted to how these signs,  or indeed things, are to be read. At this point, however, I think constructivism should be mentioned, which goes as far as calling in question the  very reality of things. P. I cannot help a little smirk here. Obviously the fathers of constructivism, Messrs. Varela, Maturana, et al. , have never come in contact with a brick dropping on their heads, or they might have been less  doubtful of a massive thing’s realness. Stating the appearance of things to depend on the structure of our perception is one thing, and since our friend Kant’s working = out of the  distinction between the thing-in-itself, and its appearance dependent  upon our perceptual equipment, relativity of thingness is undisputed,  nay trivial. What matters, however, is reality content of a thing, as indeed indicated by etymology : reality comes from the Latin res, i. e. thing. "[INPUT: Hovestadt and Bühlmann - 2014 - Domesticating symbols metalithikum. II.pdf]

02. "The task before us is not simply to make things or to resolve relations into things, more and 182 – 183 The Thing more minutely framed and microscopically understood; rather, it may be to liberate matter from the constraint, the practicality, the utility of the thing, to orient technology not so much to knowing and mediating as to experience and the rich indeterminacy of duration. Instead of merely understanding the thing and the technologies it induces through intellect, perhaps we can also develop an acquaintance with things through intuition, that Bergsonian internal and intimate apprehension of the unique particularity of things, their constitutive interconnections, and the time within which things exist. 22 The issue is not, of course, to abandon or even necessarily to criticize technologies, architecture, or the pragmatics of the thing, but rather, with Bergson, to understand both their limits and their residues."[Grosz, Elizabeth *Architecture from the Outside: Essays on Virtual and Real Space (Writing Architecture)*. 2001.]

03. "Architecture becomes a dynamic process rather than a fixed object, responsive to the environment, and an event to be activated. An architectural understanding that resonates with Ricoeur’s very notion of metaphor; “to present all things ‘as in act’—such could well be the ontological function of its new metaphorical discourse, in which every dormant potentiality of existence appears as blossoming forth, every latent capacity for action as actualized. ”34 198 B. Muller As I have attempted to argue: (1) by employing metaphors in the design process, consciously or not, architects frame an awareness of certain conditions that influence the direction of future explorations, and (2) “green” metaphors invite greater environmental attunement and therefore are helping reshape practice for the better."[(auth.), Gary Backhaus, Gary Backhaus, and John Murungi (eds.) *Symbolic Landscapes*. Springer Netherlands, 2009.]

04. "The immediate Being of things is thus conceived under the image of a rind or curtain behind which the Essence is hidden. © Everything, it is said, has an Essence; that is, things really are not what they immediately show themselves. There is something more to be done than merely rove from one quality to another, and merely to advance from qualitative to quantitative, and vice versa: there is a permanence in things, and that permanence is in the first instance their Essence."[F, Hegel G. W. *Encyclopaedia of the Philosophical Sciences*. 2011.]

05. "More importantly, however, this position reinforces the prevailing belief that architecture is an art, and that it is illegitimate to ask questions about the source, purposes, social and cultural roles of a building, let alone its political function. Instead, contemporary architectural discourse Page 232 focuses on the problem of "meaning. "2 Furthermore, the attempt to discuss architecture by reference to postmodernism in other disciplines aids and abets this process by continuing to treat architectural objects as if postmodernism enjoyed autonomous aesthetic significance in the landscape."[Shapiro, Gary *After the Future: Postmodern Times and Places*. Albany: State University of New York Press, 1990.]

06. "This is a provocative claim. Traditional philosophers from Plato to Husserl have been led to claim that the use-properties of things, their function as equipment, are interest-relative so precisely not in themselves. They reason that, since the same thing can be both a hammer and a door-stop, the thing as it is in itself cannot be either. There must be something that underlies these two subjective perspectives and their respective use-predicates, and that must be the thing as a substance, independent of our subjective projections."[Dreyfus, Hubert L *Being in the World: Commentary on Heidegger's \Being and Time\""*. MIT Press, 2015.]

07. "What I can say positively as an outsider (and I’m sure there are other things one could say) is that architecture is a discipline seeking self-deﬁnition, and for that self-deﬁnition it looks outside of itself, to see what others say about it. This, I would argue, is a very good and healthy thing. humble and less imperialistic view, in fact, is the kind of pragmatism developed in architecture. We’re making something, something which has material and historical limits, something that is inherently the product of collaboration and compromise, a practical experiment in living, regardless of whether we are philosophers or architects."[Grosz, Elizabeth *Architecture from the Outside: Essays on Virtual and Real Space (Writing Architecture)*. 2001.]

08. "Thus, Percy notes, “[t]he highest point, the term of the sightseer’s satisfaction, is not the sovereign discovery of the thing before him; it is rather the measuring up of the thing to the criterion of the preformed complex. ”27 Percy generalizes this problem to our experience of other things—art in a museum, trees, a dogfish in botany class, a Shakespearean sonnet—and he argues that “the sightseer should be prepared to enter into a struggle to 226 N. P. CARSON recover a sight” of such things, including a struggle to resist the self being signified as a passive experience consumer in such contexts. 28 Moreover, this is not an individual problem; for Percy it is the standard social human predicament in modern technological society. 29 In this, there is a “double deprivation” involving a loss of “title” for the sovereign knower—who no longer discovers unexpected, spontaneous, and particular meaning—and the loss of the thing known through its “packaging,” and through its being an instance of a type or abstract principle (MB, pp."[Marsh, Leslie *Walker Percy, Philosopher*. Springer International Publishing;Palgrave Macmillan, 2018.]

09. "It is also always about the celebration of an above-subsistence sociality, a cultural excess that needs elevation, not diminution. (Indeed, the very idea of functionality is itself another product of the cultural luxury of reﬂection that surpasses need. )5. To produce an architecture in which “women can live” (to use Irigaray’s formulation) is to produce both a domestic and a civic architecture as envelope, which permits the passage from one space and position to another, rather than the containment of objects and functions in which each thing ﬁnds its rightful place."[Grosz, Elizabeth *Architecture from the Outside: Essays on Virtual and Real Space (Writing Architecture)*. 2001.]

10. "When logic and theory are favored over lived experience, argues Lefebvre, it disadvantages the subjects who are attempting to live their everyday lives. Haunted houses upend this current imbalance by presenting a lived and perceived space that deliberately and joyously defies conceived space. Navidson of House of Leaves spends weeks and uses countless resources trying to ascertain how the inside measurements of his house can be slightly larger than the outside ones. Conceived space simply will not coincide with lived and perceived space: Navidson sees that the room inside is slightly larger than from the outside, a conceptual impossibility."[Blanco, Maria del Pilar, and Esther Peeren *Popular Ghosts: The Haunted Spaces of Everyday Culture*. Bloomsbury Academic, 2010.]

11. "But even if expenses do not play a major role, how easy is it to trace the building tradition that meets the needs of architectural self-representation?Which architectural design, or which changes in an already existing built environment, will make one feel comfortable and satisfied?Only the architecturally educated, knowing enough about dwelling history among the various classes and cultures, can help find a satisfactory answer to such a multifaceted and complicated question. Because this is all about the representation of collective or personal identities, it stands to reason that we should base our analysis of buildings or their design on the paradigm of the built environment as a representation of reality, of which identity is an example."[Mekking, Aart J.J., and Eric Roose *The Global Built Environment as a Representation of Realities: Why and How Architecture Should Be the Subject of Worldwide Comparison*. 2009.]

12. "Such a consideration exposes the normativity implicitly built into otherwise carefully designed user cases. Designing and situating interaction design within “Things” (in Björgvinsson et al. ’s sense) as socio-material assemblies suggests a different construction of the social in which the particular design emerges and will live. A social that includes reflecting on the complex contingency of what the “natural” movements of interacting with, say, Google Glass, might actually mean. Offenhuber and Telhan’s chapter take us into situating of a different order."[Ulrik, Ekman, Bolter Jay David, and Díaz Lily (Eds). *Ubiquitous Computing, Complexity and Culture*. 2017.]

13. "Hildebrandt goes further to highlight a profound conceptually based rift between interior design and interior architecture: [I]nterior design is grounded in the condition of additive assemblies and separate contracted services. While the design processes of architecture and interior design share the same procedural sequence and a core discipline vocabulary, interior design, both as a discipline and in its product, is (or can be) free of the weight of the architecture. Additive assemblies within the “interior” may establish an independent language. . . intentionally, conceptually, and contractually removed from the building shell. 26 Whether in an educational or professional context, interior design’s association with architecture necessitates an imperative for students and practitioners to become familiar with a wide scope of building technologies, including materials and systems, structures, physics, health and safety issues, mathematics, and sustainable practices."[Kleinman, Kent, Joanna Merwood-Salisbury, and Lois Weinthal *After Taste: Expanded Practice in Interior Design*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2011.]

14. "His concern is for a place where the thing is secure in its intimate link to our experience, and where those Extrakte des Lebens (extracts of life) that have formed our experience are collected in the thing (since the thing is collected). To continue Altenberg's explication, this thing cannot validly go outside and produce, but it is not for this reason a literary protest against Metropolis, technology and civilization. On the contrary, its very withdrawal into the interior is perhaps meant to signify that the world is henceforth "simply full of things" (in the indefinite plural) {p. 185), or, in other words, that the thing is henceforth only that which is totally manipulablealienable, stripped of all substance and separated from being."[Cacciari, Massimo, Stephen Sartarelli (transl.), and Patrizia Lombardo (introduction) *Architecture and Nihilism: On the Philosophy of Modern Architecture*. Yale University Press, 1995.]

15. "Factors that help to induce a sense of ‘place’, therefore, are given particular consideration. One of the most effective of these factors is light, to the extent that light and space are inseparable and that when light is eliminated from a space the emotional content of space disappears. The essence of architectural space lies in the interaction of the elements that define it. We can observe the relevance of the indivisible interplay of space and light in the case of the courtyard house."[Edwards, Brian *Courtyard Housing*. Taylor & Francis Group, 2006.]