Created: 2025-12-26 05:34:22
Origin: searched
Selected: The above reconstruction of the iconic program and associations inside and outside the Golden Pavilion, to a great extent, is prompted by the architecture of the three-story building. As one moved from floor to floor, the iconography seems to have been the constitutive, rather than coincidental, part of the architecture, and together, they transform the building.[Lin, Wei-Cheng *Building a Sacred Mountain: The Buddhist Architecture of China’s Mount Wutai*. University of Washington Press, 2014.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Most of the buildings in the world are structured today by three-dimensional frames, consisting of floor slabs supported by beams, beams supported by columns, columns supported by foundations, and foundations sitting on the earth. The beams and columns, usually set at the corners of a rectangular grid, are made out of steel or reinforced concrete; the floor slabs, most of the time, of reinforced concrete."[Levy, Matthys, Mario Salvadori, and Kevin Woest *Why Buildings Fall Down: How Structures Fail*. W.W. Norton, 1994.]

02. "PAGE 2 FLOOR . . . staking the claim of civilization on  the raw ground, encoding usage and  assuming decoration, the floor then  accrues complexity in its section  while simplifying its surface details. . . FLOOR PAGE 3 relative floor International Space Station — Domino House — No Stop City, Continuous Monument — Floor Area Ratio (FAR) false floor — Raised floor systems "[INPUT: floor.pdf]

03. "floor" to prompt or indulge a spectrum of behaviors is perhaps another underexploited power  worth retrieving from a study of architectural elements. section A historical fast-forward through the changing cross-section of the floor would remain steady on  hardened earth for centuries, eventually incorporating aggregates of stone and wooden timbers.  Floors in ancient palaces and temples across all civilizations, paved with every possible stone and  metal, would animate the section slightly. The Greeks introduced beams combining stone and  iron to resist bending. Romans introduced the chemical composite of concrete also occasionally "[INPUT: floor.pdf]

04. "The textural details of previous occupants are kept intact 4. There is a map-like pattern on the concrete floor 5. It is a space of pure white 6. Different areas have different lightings 1. 白色的墙壁从天花板一直延伸到地板 2. 顾客在等候时可以阅读杂志 3. 从前租户所留下的印记被原封不动地保留了下来 4. 水泥地面上有一块类似地图的图案 5. 这是一个纯白的空间 6. 不同区域的灯光不同 1 4 5 2 3 3 6 230 - 231 1. Reception 2. Waiting area 3. Cutting area 4."[Chang, Catherine *Beauty Salons*. Liaoning Science & Technology Publishing House, Profession Design Press, 2011.]

05. "Concrete slabs are used all over the world to build floors in all types of buildings (even those with steel columns and beams) and act as "two-dimensional beams" bending in one or two directions depending on how they are supported (Fig. D18). APPENDIX D 297 a Tensile Hoops in Dome TF/V61LE HOOPS LOAPINC, —2*s me* b Tension Ring at Base of Dome D17 Dome LOAPtNCf 3ENPMAT 5A&0 OF PCMB D18 Beam-Supported Floor Slab 298 APPENDIX D a Nails in Wood c Web Connection in Steel b Special Connection in Wood d Fixed Connection in Steel e Moment Connection in Concrete D19 Connections APPENDIX D 299 Connections Structural systems are put together by joining structural elements."[Levy, Matthys, Mario Salvadori, and Kevin Woest *Why Buildings Fall Down: How Structures Fail*. W.W. Norton, 1994.]

06. "Structural steel beams are often used to support reinforced concrete floor or roof slabs. The slabs may be designed to support their own weight and other dead and live loads over the 284 Building Engineering and Systems Design spaces between the steel beams. The beams, in turn, may be designed to support their own weight and the load from the slab. Because the slab has a relatively large cross-sectional area and the compressive strength of this area is not fully utilized, an opportunity exists for more economical design of the beams and slab."[Merritt, Frederick S., and James Ambrose (auth.) *Building Engineering and Systems Design*. Springer US, 1989.]

07. "center to center, to provide adequate support. Figure 2. 2b shows a floor sometimes used in office buildings. The sub floor is strong and thick, often made of concrete. It may be covered with linoleum, asphalt or vinyl tile, or carpeting. Beams for supporting this floor may be placed relatively far apart and have to be strong and stiff. They may be steel beams, as shown in Fig."[Merritt, Frederick S., and James Ambrose (auth.) *Building Engineering and Systems Design*. Springer US, 1989.]

08. "The primary concern of this text is space planning, not design presentation. Despite this, the language of space planning is the floor plan, and its graphic qualities cannot be entirely ignored. One of the premises of the planning methodology presented here is that the transition from the rough floor plan to the preliminary or presentation floor plan is part of the planning process, not just a graphic refinement."[Karlen, Mark, and Rob Fleming *Space Planning Basics*. 4th ed. Wiley, 2016.]

09. "Materials Traditionally, timber was used for the floor structure because there was no simple, cheap alternative. Nowadays, however, concrete and steel are both suitable for floor construction although they are most likely to be found in blocks of flats where requirements for fire protection and sound insulation are much higher than normal domestic construction."[MBEng, Duncan Marshall BSc MCIOB, and Derek Worthing BSc Mphil MRICS *The Construction of Houses, Fourth Edition*. 4th ed. Estates Gazette Ltd, 2006.]

10. "It abuts, but is not tied into, the external walls to accommodate slight differential settlement of the wall and floor. Because of the relatively low superimposed loads of furniture and occupants it is suitable for most types of ground and, in the 1960s to 1980s it was, by far, the most common type of floor. In modern construction about 40% of floors are formed in ground bearing slabs, the rest are pre-cast concrete (about 50%) and timber 10%."[MBEng, Duncan Marshall BSc MCIOB, and Derek Worthing BSc Mphil MRICS *The Construction of Houses, Fourth Edition*. 4th ed. Estates Gazette Ltd, 2006.]

11. "For shallow raised floor systems, the panels are made from steel, st~l, steel-faced particle board, or plywood; and for deep raised floors the same material can be used as well as fibreraIsed reinforced re~nforced inorganic materials, cast aluminium and glass reinforced cement (GRC). Non-rigid floor panels can give remforced a springy, hollow sensation when being walked across."[Blanc, Alan *Internal Components*. Routledge, 1994.]

12. "A building’s basic structural materials—wood, masonry, steel, or concrete—determine the ease with which wall and floor openings can be made, creating a major influence on the usefulness of a building for its intended new function. The length of a building’s structural spans (bay size), often related to the building’s age (generally, the more recent buildings have longer spans), will determine the degree of flexibility and openness that can be created; obviously, small bays will restrict partition and furniture placement and limit traffic flow."[Karlen, Mark, and Rob Fleming *Space Planning Basics*. 4th ed. Wiley, 2016.]

13. "The rock remaining after excavation – reinforced as necessary – provides the structural support normally provided by concrete, steel, and lumber in conventional surface-sited buildings. In addition, in the underground there is no need to construct thick walls of nuclear-grade concrete for radiation shielding and containment because sufficiently-thick rock-mass walls would serve this function."[Brebbia, C. A., D. Kaliampakos, and P. Prochazka *Underground Spaces : Design, Engineering and Environmental Aspects (Wit Transactions on the Built Environment)*. WIT Press, 2008.]

14. "8. I(c). Today stairs and lift shafts which form structural cores are often constructed with in situ reinforced concrete framing to provide structural concrete sheer walls. The interaction of the vertical structural walls enclosing stair and lift shafts against the floor framing provides stiffness to the total frame as shown in Fig."[Blanc, Alan *Internal Components*. Routledge, 1994.]

15. "The walls are a large “plane. ” The sofa is a large “plane. ” The floor coverings and floor are large planes. My apartment might be a fun example to analyze . . . Our dining room and living room have zany painted floors—a deep beigey color coupled with a crisp white to make a wild, but not too wild, checkerboard floor. The walls pull from the white in the floor—a quiet “plane” in contrast with the “pop” of the painted floors."[Salway, Christina, and Monica Pedersen *Home improvement projects for the busy & broke: how to get your $h!t together and live like an adult*. Skyhorse Publishing, 2016.]

16. "As a result the simplified “stage by stage” procedure of the method and its “easy to use” rating from an inexperienced designer’s point of view, are presented. INTRODUCTION Building elements, namely walls, roofs, slabs, stairs, ramps, doors, windows, internal walls, are the physical “architectural” components of the building. To develop building elements, “copying” or “adapting” typical details from manufacturers’ brochures, websites, catalogues or “best practice” handbooks are the most common approaches."[Lynn, Abraham C., and Robert Reitherman *AEI 2011 : building integration solutions : proceedings of the 2011 Architectural Engineering National Conference, March 30-April 2, 2011 Oakland, California*. Oakland, Calif.), Reston, Va: American Society of Civil Engineers, 2011.]

17. "The incorporation of the horizontal loadbearing elements (floor slabs) into the vertical ones (columns) is another distinguishing criterion."[Herzog, Thomas *Facade Construction Manual*. Birkhäuser Architecture, 2004.]

18. "The proposed structural system consists of reinforced concrete systems with perimeter spiraling high-strength galvanized steel cables. The lateral system is composed of intersecting sets of parallel shear walls and perimeter highstrength galvanized steel Figure 10. Floor Framing Figure 9. Al Sharq Tower AEI 2011 193 Figure 11. Stress Analysis and Cable Profile cables."[Lynn, Abraham C., and Robert Reitherman *AEI 2011 : building integration solutions : proceedings of the 2011 Architectural Engineering National Conference, March 30-April 2, 2011 Oakland, California*. Oakland, Calif.), Reston, Va: American Society of Civil Engineers, 2011.]

19. "Two views of the main sitting area within the vast open-plan ground floor of my home, a former auction house in central London, decorated in calm shades of taupe and white (above and below). I bought the building as a shell, with nothing but a floor, an impressively high ceiling and the structural columns. I clad the columns in pale wood panels inset with horizontal runners of nickel and bronze."[Hoppen, Kelly *House of Hoppen: A Retrospective*. Jacqui Small, 2016.]

20. "First, all architectural design data including floor plan, elevations, sections, site plan, wall and roof constructions, glazing (all external glass doors and windows) and finishes schedules (Light color for wall and roof, Solar absorptance (α) = 0. 4) have been collected. The typical floor plan is shown in Figure 1."[Ciancio, Daniela, and Christopher Beckett *Rammed Earth Construction: Cutting-Edge Research on Traditional and Modern Rammed Earth*. CRC Press, 2015.]

21. "1 0 0 m (4 in) deep hitensile steel I-Beams on a m a x i m u m of 2 5 0 m m (10 in) centres. Shall be attached to rub rail via high strength mechanical fasteners. Floor, insulation and sub-floor to rest on crossmembers. (viii) Floor — shall be a m i n i m u m of 2 8 . 6 m m (1 / s in) tongue and groove type laminated hardwood. Each board shall be attached to each crossmember."[(Auth.), VASTA *Conservation & Exhibitions*. Butterworth-Heinemann, 1987.]

22. "The above reconstruction of the iconic program and associations inside and outside the Golden Pavilion, to a great extent, is prompted by the architecture of the three-story building. As one moved from floor to floor, the iconography seems to have been the constitutive, rather than coincidental, part of the architecture, and together, they transform the building."[Lin, Wei-Cheng *Building a Sacred Mountain: The Buddhist Architecture of China’s Mount Wutai*. University of Washington Press, 2014.]

23. "At the waiting area, the wood floor pattern breaks the normal long-running board pattern with cross-stitched short boards slowing the visitor down. In the lounge area a brick floor with a simple running bond pattern define the informal dining area. At the kitchen visitors walk on an antiqued hexagonal brick floor. Even in the bathrooms, a carefully considered large stone floor pattern support a larger series of discrete experiences that work overall to quietly engage the visitor into quiet contemplation."[Du (Editor), Darren *New Art Deco Style*. Design Media Publishing Ltd, 2011.]

24. "A wall of timber veneer slats emphasizes the vertical grid while separating the living area from the marble and bespoke joinery entrance hall behind. The JNL Samara lacquered coffee table also has a cross-shaped stainless-steel runner. This bathroom in one of my previous London homes features a stunning floor of taupe-coloured milk glass, which has a lovely reflective sheen."[Hoppen, Kelly *House of Hoppen: A Retrospective*. Jacqui Small, 2016.]

25. "High-performance and textile-reinforced concretes In the realm of concrete production, numerous research activities are currently being undertaken to improve the performance of concrete. Concrete Concrete in the facade reinforced plain Type of reinforcement mesh/ fabric Reinforcing material steel fabric plastics fibres glass metal plastics glass wood Type of concrete normal-weight concrete lightweight concrete aerated concrete lightweight concrete normal-weight concrete Applications reconstructed stone in situ concrete facade single-leaf suspended wall panel precast concrete components (1–14 m2) double-leaf suspended wall panel fibre-cement sheets sandwich element Self-compacting and high-strength concretes are just two of the focal points of these research activities."[Herzog, Thomas *Facade Construction Manual*. Birkhäuser Architecture, 2004.]