Created: 2025-11-08 12:50:38
Origin: searched
Selected: Like other media, prose can view scenes from anywhere in the physical world, but it also adds subjective angles within a character’s mental world. Once the prose writer makes a choice of person (first, third, or the eccentric second), her eye moves from that angle like a spotlight. The author holds our perception in her fist. As we follow her sentences, she takes us where she wishes: through the places, times, and societies of her world; or into a single character’s thought-filled depths, there to witness rationalizations, self-deceptions, and dreams; or deeper yet, into the character’s subconscious to reveal her raw appetites, nightmarish terrors, and lost memories.[Mckee, Robert *Dialogue: The Art of Verbal Action for Page, Stage, and Screen*. Twelve, 2016.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Like other media, prose can view scenes from anywhere in the physical world, but it also adds subjective angles within a character’s mental world. Once the prose writer makes a choice of person (first, third, or the eccentric second), her eye moves from that angle like a spotlight. The author holds our perception in her fist. As we follow her sentences, she takes us where she wishes: through the places, times, and societies of her world; or into a single character’s thought-filled depths, there to witness rationalizations, self-deceptions, and dreams; or deeper yet, into the character’s subconscious to reveal her raw appetites, nightmarish terrors, and lost memories."[Mckee, Robert *Dialogue: The Art of Verbal Action for Page, Stage, and Screen*. Twelve, 2016.]

02. "Janzen (2004) adds some more important observations about the nature of constructed action and its relationship to presenting aspects of a story from a character’s perspective. First, Janzen emphasizes a point made also by Liddell and Metzger (1998), that there is not necessarily any physical change in the body position to accompany or indicate a change in perspective. To summarize (Janzen 2004, 152⫺153): Rather than using a physical shift in space to encode differing perspectives as described above, signers frequently manipulate the spatially constructed scene in their discourse by mentally rotating it so that other event participants’ perspectives align with the signer’s stationary physical vantage point."[Pfau, Roland, Markus Steinbach, and Bencie Woll *Sign Language: An International Handbook*. Mouton De Gruyter, 2012.]

03. "Hence a person is naturally invoked as a “mental address” providing access to the cluster of items he possesses. (Langacker 1993: 9) The linguistic relevance of the reference point strategy is not restricted ⫺ according to Langacker (1993: 26 ff. )⫺ to possessive constructions, because “certain presentational constructions that serve to introduce an element into the scene are reasonably attributed reference-point National variation in the use of er “there” 167 function” (ibid. )."[Kristiansen, Gitte, and Rene Dirven Gitte Kristiansen *Cognitive Sociolinguistics: Language Variation, Cultural Models, Social Systems (Cognitive Linguistic Research)*. Mouton de Gruyter, 2008.]

04. "The issue of why direct discourse allows shifted pronouns, while other cases of role shift only allow shifted locus, will be discussed in section 5. For now, the important point is that verb agreement with first person is just as ‘indexical’ as a first-person pronoun for the issue under discussion. With this in mind, Zucchi pursues a common analysis of shifting indexicals in quotational and non-quotational contexts. It has three parts. The first part is the introduction of another variable, this one for the speaker/signer (σ)."[Pfau, Roland, Markus Steinbach, and Bencie Woll *Sign Language: An International Handbook*. Mouton De Gruyter, 2012.]

05. "Salient objects serve as reference points for this purpose: if the viewer knows that a non-salient object lies near a salient one, he can find it by directing his attention to the latter and searching in its vicinity. This reference point ability has been found to be the cognitive motor of very diverse linguistic phenomena: building on the perceptual and conceptual aspects of the reference point Gestalt, cognitively oriented linguists have been able to account for the syntactic, semantic and pragmatic peculiarities of such diverse phenomena as possessive constructions (Langacker 1993; Taylor 1996), topic constructions (Langacker 1993), and, more recently, adjunct-initial presentative sentences (Grondelaers 2000; Grondelaers and Brysbaert 1996; Grondelaers, Brysbaert, Speelman and Geeraerts 2002)."[Kristiansen, Gitte, and Rene Dirven Gitte Kristiansen *Cognitive Sociolinguistics: Language Variation, Cultural Models, Social Systems (Cognitive Linguistic Research)*. Mouton de Gruyter, 2008.]

06. "For the same reason, the perspective in question must pay attention to ﬂexible processes of making linguistic choices, both in production and in interpretation, from a variable (and in principle inﬁnite) range of options, in a manner that is negotiable and dynamic rather than mechanical, thus betraying a high degree of adaptability. It is the purpose of the following pages to translate this theoretical stance into a number of more practical observations. A WORLD OF COMMUNICATION The social world is truly a world of communication, discourse, or rhetoric."[*Companion To Semiotics and Linguistics* Routledge, 2010.]

07. "The syntactic distribution of reference types was also briefly considered. Finally, the possibility of underlying referential dimensions, and the relations of those dimensions to previously identified textual dimensions, was addressed through an exploratory factor analysis. Future research could extend the analyses here in several directions, considering additional genres, more texts within genres, and longer texts. The distribution of these features within texts and within genres are questions that deserve empirical investigation in their own right."[Svartvik, Jan *Directions in Corpus Linguistics*. Reprint 2011 ed. De Gruyter Mouton, 1992.]

08. "So, if quotation is simply a demonstration, there might be no issue with the shifting of indexicals. Thus, quotative role shift might not pose any particular challenges to the formal theorist. What about its non-quotative uses?Now we must confront the issue of which indexicals shift in non-quotative role shift. Recall Engberg-Pedersen’s claims that first person pronouns shift only in direct discourse. As was pointed out in the previous section, the fact that first person agreement is used on verbs in non-quotative role shift indicates that some account of shifting is still needed."[Pfau, Roland, Markus Steinbach, and Bencie Woll *Sign Language: An International Handbook*. Mouton De Gruyter, 2012.]

09. "Style-shifting and shifting styles 65 […] the meaning of variation lies in its role in the construction of styles, and what I am proposing here is a study of the role of variation in stylistic practice. This involves not simply placing variables in styles, but in understanding this placement as an integral part of the construction of social meaning. This has several implications for our view of variation. First, variables do not come into a style with a specific, fixed meaning, but take on such meaning in the process of construction of the style."[Kristiansen, Gitte, and Rene Dirven Gitte Kristiansen *Cognitive Sociolinguistics: Language Variation, Cultural Models, Social Systems (Cognitive Linguistic Research)*. Mouton de Gruyter, 2008.]

10. "What the reader knows or sees of events is always restricted to what that character can know and see. The character chosen as a narrative centre, and often referred to through the use of a third-person pronoun as he or she, may be the protagonist (= the main character) or may be some other major character [ibid. , p. 44]. This form of the author’s speech plane is also called entrusted. The limited omniscient point o f view o f the entrusted narrative is often carried out in the first person."[Кароліна., Лотоцька *Стилістика англійської мови*. 2017.]

11. "From an audience’s point of view, is the purpose of a character expressing a judgement of their situation to enable us to reflect productively on the type of situation they are in?Or is it to enable us to reflect productively on that character and how they see their position in their world?Of course, it is possible to have both, but the two can also come apart. Recognizing a point about language – that evaluations can advertise the speaker’s situation as well as the availability of reasons – helps to show why this is so."[Bourne, Craig, and Emily Caddick Bourne *The Routledge Companion to Shakespeare and Philosophy*. Routledge, 2018.]

12. "Perhaps, then, a fragment stands for and reflects an independent, though not isolated, thought, either in discursive or in nondiscursive thinking. Because each thought is not isolated, it therefore possesses an inherent relation to other thoughts (maybe even to all thoughts?)that one moves through. In this sense, thinking and writing in fragments is justifiable. However, this “inherent” connection between fragments may come from a certain systematicity within thinking itself—or from a coherence of the character of a thinker, which is determined not only culturally but also individually, as one’s “personal other. ” It seems, then, that an intrinsic connection between fragments is differently established in these two cases."[(auth.), Dmitri Nikulin *Comedy, Seriously: A Philosophical Study*. Palgrave Macmillan US, 2014.]

13. "(2012a), Mullally et al. (2012b)), Hassabis et al. (2007)). The grounding in prior memories of our capacity to imagine other worlds, both future and literary ones, indicates further means whereby literary works dynamically fuse with and transform our minds. Prior experiential associations are elicited and extended by the types of consciously-crafted imagery that distinguishes literary texts, through our immersive blending of real and fictional worlds. The use of some of the same cognitive mechanisms to perceive and act in the world and to imagine perceiving and acting in the world, suggests why literary works consciously-crafted, vivid and kinesic imagery provide especially catalytic scaffolding for perceptual flights into and beyond the usual constraints of our own imaginations."[Bourne, Craig, and Emily Caddick Bourne *The Routledge Companion to Shakespeare and Philosophy*. Routledge, 2018.]

14. "Literature overcomes the relative paucity of much mental imagery through providing readers with rich and detailed instructions that help us to form more vivid, concrete and dynamic images (Scarry (1999)). The mind of the reader brings the work forth and the work brings the mind of the reader forth. Literature and art provide surrogates for an aspect or aspects of the world, constituting our experience of the work though drawing on our specific perceptual, motor and mnemonic repertoire, recalibrating them through this engagement in a way that consequently recalibrates our experience of the world."[Bourne, Craig, and Emily Caddick Bourne *The Routledge Companion to Shakespeare and Philosophy*. Routledge, 2018.]

15. "Although the stage and screen limit the use of these two modes, for the novelist and short-story writer, they are the stuff of first-person prose. When characters talk directly to the reader, the topic tends to be past events and their impact on themselves (e. g. , The Museum of Innocence), whereas when characters talk to themselves, their inner dialogue acts out intra-dynamic events in the now. These dramatizations of self versus self carry psychological nuance into the depths of the unsayable (e. g. , Fräulein Else)."[Mckee, Robert *Dialogue: The Art of Verbal Action for Page, Stage, and Screen*. Twelve, 2016.]