Created: 2025-12-23 02:53:01
Origin: suggested
Selected: Moreo~er, such a claim seems extremely implausible. ConsI~er the follo':ln. g ,tatements: (a) "This blackboard i, large," and (b) "'I he surface of thIs blackboard is large. "Surely one would not want to say that "large'~ ha, different meanings or significations in these two statements. Conslde~, by contra,t, the u,e of "healthy" in "Thi, body i, healthy" and "Th,s f()Od is healthy. "Here we would give different explanatiOns of what "healthy" means in each statement: the predICate clearly does have different significations.[(ed.), Dominic J. O'Meara *Platonic investigations*. Washington, D.C.: Catholic University of America Press, 1985.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Moreo~er, such a claim seems extremely implausible. ConsI~er the follo':ln. g ,tatements: (a) "This blackboard i, large," and (b) "'I he surface of thIs blackboard is large. "Surely one would not want to say that "large'~ ha, different meanings or significations in these two statements. Conslde~, by contra,t, the u,e of "healthy" in "Thi, body i, healthy" and "Th,s f()Od is healthy. "Here we would give different explanatiOns of what "healthy" means in each statement: the predICate clearly does have different significations."[(ed.), Dominic J. O'Meara *Platonic investigations*. Washington, D.C.: Catholic University of America Press, 1985.]

02. "Such spatial representation of spatial relationships is pictorial in a quite straightforward way. Few cases, however, are as simple as this. If the sentence were spoken instead of written, it would be a temporal relationship between sounds rather than a spatial relationship on the page which would represent the relationship between the cities. But this in turn is possible only because the spoken sequence and the spatial array have a certain abstract structure in common. According to the Tractatus, there must be something which any picture must have in common with what it depicts."[Kenny, Sir Anthony *An Illustrated Brief History of Western Philosophy*. [Illustrated ed. ]. Malden, MA: Wiley-Blackwell, 2006.]

03. "If that sounds like it might be a bit dangerous in a 15th- century context, consider a hyper-modern example: the internet is based on the same philosophy—even though the servers are physically located in many different places, they link up together to create a virtual space which, to the user, seems like a single continuum. What does this tell us about ideas?I would like to claim that such a cartographic approach, and particularly Grothendieck's new reworking of this ancient idea, tells us that there is no single prefered point of view to any given question."[Grothendieck, Alexandre., Alexandre Grothendieck, and Leila  (eds.) Schneps *Alexandre Grothendieck: A Mathematical Portrait*. Bilingual. France., Peyresq, France): International Press of Boston, 2014.]

04. "If we talk of perceiving in several things the common feature redness, we should realize that there would be no such determinate and identifiable ‘feature’ or point of resemblance unless some word had the meaning which ‘red’ has. Hence we cannot appeal to the evident presence or absence of such an antecedently identified feature in a dispute over a borderline case: we have rather to appeal to a notion of what would properly be called ‘red’."[Ayers, Michael *Locke (Arguments of the Philosophers)*. New edition. Routledge, 1993.]

05. "As I am an art historian of the post-1945 period, this list of grids clearly falls beyond the scope of my specialization. I am well aware that certain debates, positions, and connections suggested by this list would be rendered more complex or subtle in the hands of an expert 7 8 in each ﬁeld. Such subtlety would have doubled the length of this project, however, bogging it down with technical details relished by the specialist but largely beside the point for the overall thrust of this interdisciplinary adventure tale."[Higgins, Hannah *The grid book*. MIT Press, 2009.]

06. "Our model would almost never see two occurrences of the same feature and would not be able to learn effectively. Therefore, we would like to turn raw text into a form that is more amenable to machine learning. There are numerous ways of dealing with text, and the field of natural language processing is dedicated to processing, representing, and modeling textual content. A full treatment is beyond the scope of this book, but we will introduce a simple and standard approach for text-feature extraction; this approach is known as the bag-of-words representation."[Pentreath, Nick *Machine Learning with Spark*. Packt Publishing, 2014.]

07. "We can, it is true, make sense of certain sorts of ascription of power to nonsubstances. A voice, for example, might have the power to instil fear; or a sound, the capacity to break wine-glasses. Yet a voice or sound, in this context, is not something fully particular, like a piece of gold or a particular utterance. A particular speech-episode either frightens or not, and there seems little point in attributing to an episode an unexercised potentiality simply on the grounds that in different circumstances it would have had a different effect."[Ayers, Michael *Locke (Arguments of the Philosophers)*. New edition. Routledge, 1993.]

08. "This consequential relationship must, on the imagist view, be ‘observed’ or ‘perceived’ in the particular case and must therefore, presumably, be already present in the particular case, before the act of generalizing to all relevantly similar cases. If it were not already present there would be no way of distinguishing between necessarily related aspects and contingently related aspects of the particular case. That is to say, there would be no way of distinguishing the universalizable perception that this triangle has angles equal to two right angles from the non-universalizable perception that this triangle is red."[Ayers, Michael *Locke (Arguments of the Philosophers)*. New edition. Routledge, 1993.]

09. "But the application of the substitu- tion test would involve a certain extension. We should have to ask whether or not the sentence was being used in such a way as to license the inference with regard to any particular individual (say, Socrates) who is known to be human that he is, however described, necessarily rational. The de re interpretation of universal, necessary sentences in Aristotle would take them as licensing this inference; the analytic interpretation would not. Again, the de re interpretation would take the universal sentences to be best read in terms of the hyphenated predicate tnecessarily-rational', while the analytic interpretation would take them to be best read by making the modal word govern the whole sentence tall humans are rational'."[Sorabji, Richard *Necessity, Cause, and Blame: Perspectives on Aristotle's Theory*. 1983.]

10. "Many geographers would not agree with my opening statement. I would challenge them to disprove it or to make valid claims for other dimensions of the discipline. One could not support a contrary argument based on geography’s traditional role of collecting facts about the earth’s physical or human environment. While other aspects of the discipline continue to have much to offer in terms of understanding the relations between people and places, it is not always possible to differentiate the geographic/geospatial component from the more general humanities’, political sciences’, or social sciences’ thinking and reasoning that drives much of this work."[Fotheringham, A Stewart, and Peter A. Rogerson *The SAGE Handbook of Spatial Analysis*. SAGE Publications Ltd, 2009.]

11. "28L LS; and see Seneca, Letters 117. 2/60S LS). 23 The translation is a vexed issue. Long and Sedley prefer ‘sustaining’ which certainly has the virtue of better rendering this original meaning; but it is less well adapted to later developments, as we shall see. With misgivings, I retain the more usual (although semantically unhelpful) ‘containing’, by way of the Latin ‘continens’. 24 For Galen’s physics, see Hankinson 2008; for his causal theory, see Hankinson 1994 and Hankinson 2003. 25 On the Stoic “categories,” see Brunschwig 2003, 227–32; Sedley 1999, esp."[Schmaltz, Tad M. *Efficient Causation: A History*. Oxford University Press, 2014.]

12. "This is not Aristotle’s own account of his difference from his predecessors: see 427a17 ff. 18 See e. g. Kahn (1979b). 19 Osborne (1983) takes a slightly different view of reﬂectiveness. 20 On consciousness in general, see e. g. Tye (1995); Lycan (1996); Papineau (2002). 21 There are obvious tricky cases: just how conscious am I of the smell of buttered toast while I am concentrating on writing this sentence?22 Here see the debate about spiritualism versus literalism, especially between Burnyeat (e. g."[McCabe, Mary Margaret *Platonic Conversations*. Hardcover. Oxford University Press, USA, 2015.]

13. "See Ladd-Franklin, Colour and Colour Theories. See Hospers, “Hartshorne’s Aesthetics,” 6–7. On aesthetic contextualism, see Pepper, Aesthetic Quality. Also see Lewis Hahn, A Contextualistic Theory of Perception (Berkeley: University of California Press, 942). See Hospers, “Hartshorne’s Aesthetics,” 22–23. See Whitehead, “Objects and Subjects,” in Adventures of Ideas, chap. . See n. 5. See Hospers, “Hartshorne’s Aesthetics,” 24. See Langer, Feeling and Form, chap. 7–9. See the essays in Wallin, Merker, and Brown, The Origins of Music."[Dombrowski, Daniel A. *Divine Beauty: The Aesthetics of Charles Hartshorne*. Vanderbilt University Press, 2004.]

14. "It would be especially valuable in order to avoid projecting contemporary western cultural perspectives onto gardens of other civilizations such as the Roman, Arabic, Persian, Japanese, and Chinese. In each case it would demand an assessment of intentions and representations of man’s relationship to living nature when gardening with respect to cultural orientations of persons engaged in the gardening activities under scrutiny. We have seen that some couples of opposite categories, which can be mutually exclusive or dialectical, follow distinctive patterns in a given culture."[Coan, Michel *Perspectives on Garden Histories (Dumbarton Oaks Colloquium Series in the History of Landscape Architecture) (v. 21)*. Dumbarton Oaks Research Library and Collection, 2006.]

15. "It had a different background (infra, n. 5). A number of English translations merely retain the Greek term. Aquinas (supra) used the term but offered an explanation that would be immediately apparent to his readers, namely, a person versed in the Aristotelian study of nature. Similarly William Wilkinson [37] gave the Latin translation 'qui de natura rerum disputant. 'The notion would include what today comes under the competence of the psychologist."[Owens, Joseph, and John R. Catan *Aristotle, the collected papers of Joseph Owens*. SUNY Press, 1981.]