Created: 2025-11-08 12:50:35
Origin: suggested
Selected: Like other media, prose can view scenes from anywhere in the physical world, but it also adds subjective angles within a character’s mental world. Once the prose writer makes a choice of person (first, third, or the eccentric second), her eye moves from that angle like a spotlight. The author holds our perception in her fist. As we follow her sentences, she takes us where she wishes: through the places, times, and societies of her world; or into a single character’s thought-filled depths, there to witness rationalizations, self-deceptions, and dreams; or deeper yet, into the character’s subconscious to reveal her raw appetites, nightmarish terrors, and lost memories.[Mckee, Robert *Dialogue: The Art of Verbal Action for Page, Stage, and Screen*. Twelve, 2016.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Like other media, prose can view scenes from anywhere in the physical world, but it also adds subjective angles within a character’s mental world. Once the prose writer makes a choice of person (first, third, or the eccentric second), her eye moves from that angle like a spotlight. The author holds our perception in her fist. As we follow her sentences, she takes us where she wishes: through the places, times, and societies of her world; or into a single character’s thought-filled depths, there to witness rationalizations, self-deceptions, and dreams; or deeper yet, into the character’s subconscious to reveal her raw appetites, nightmarish terrors, and lost memories."[Mckee, Robert *Dialogue: The Art of Verbal Action for Page, Stage, and Screen*. Twelve, 2016.]

02. "Chapter One looked at the three categories of point of view in prose and how they affect the qualities and quantities of dialogue. Now, let’s take those distinctions into more depth and detail by grouping the many varieties of prose dialogue into two grand modes: in-character versus non-character. Non-Character Narration The non-character side of prose tells its stories through a third-person narrator, an intelligence that is neither a character nor the real-life voice of the author, but a guiding awareness a writer invents and then endows with varying degrees of omniscience and objectivity to describe characters and events as well as provide commentary in various kinds of discourse."[Mckee, Robert *Dialogue: The Art of Verbal Action for Page, Stage, and Screen*. Twelve, 2016.]

03. "Although the stage and screen limit the use of these two modes, for the novelist and short-story writer, they are the stuff of first-person prose. When characters talk directly to the reader, the topic tends to be past events and their impact on themselves (e. g. , The Museum of Innocence), whereas when characters talk to themselves, their inner dialogue acts out intra-dynamic events in the now. These dramatizations of self versus self carry psychological nuance into the depths of the unsayable (e. g. , Fräulein Else)."[Mckee, Robert *Dialogue: The Art of Verbal Action for Page, Stage, and Screen*. Twelve, 2016.]

04. "The message may or may not be temporally divorced from “the original circumstances of its formulation”, but it is no longer divorced from its writer, which means that the writer becomes “the authenticating source of the message” and that this fact effectively inhibits the tendency towards regarding “meaning as residing in the words themselves” (Harris 2000: 236). The implication of this is that text-based computer-mediated communication introduces a “responsoring” of the written text and that, when participants interact textually on these premises, they may reclaim language from the “autoglottic” space into which writing previously relocated it."[Duncker, Dorthe *The Reflexivity of Language and Linguistic Inquiry : Integrational Linguistics in Practice*. New York ; Routledge, 2019.]

05. "This is the power of an open text, as Eco points out in The Role of the Reader: ‘An open text is a paramount instance of a syntactic-semantico-pragmatic device whose foreseen interpretation is a part of its generative process’ (Eco (1994a: 3)). Even in its creation the author anticipates and invites interaction. An open work summons collaboration between the reader and the text to create meanings. These meanings will no doubt be various and disparate but they cannot be without limitations."[Bourne, Craig, and Emily Caddick Bourne *The Routledge Companion to Shakespeare and Philosophy*. Routledge, 2018.]

06. "also Bublitz 2005a: 321 f). 'Sailing the islands or watching from the dock' 265 A further difference between 'old' printed text and hypertext nodes is that the latters' propositional meanings are often much more readily understood than interpersonal meanings. This is not only due to a lack of relevant means of emotive prosody, empathetic orientation, evaluative judgement, ideological stance etc. As any piece of text is created by a particular person (or several persons) and addressed to an intended reader, browser, user, it carries and displays subjectivity to a greater or lesser extent."[Gerbig, Andrea, and Oliver Mason *Language, People, Numbers: Corpus Linguistics and Society (Language and Computers : Studies in Practical Linguistics)*. Rodopi, 2008.]

07. "indirect, dramatic type of characterization - through dialogue and action) to “telling” (based on direct auctorial portrayal, evaluation and commentary) in revealing the character, but neither method is necessarily better; and thus the majority of modem writers employ a combination of the two. QUESTIONS FOR SELF-CONTROL: CTUAicTuka aHrAiucbkoi m o b u 1. How doyou understand the notion of “point of view”?2. Enumerate major types of narrative. What is the authors narrative?"[Кароліна., Лотоцька *Стилістика англійської мови*. 2017.]

08. "Janzen (2004) adds some more important observations about the nature of constructed action and its relationship to presenting aspects of a story from a character’s perspective. First, Janzen emphasizes a point made also by Liddell and Metzger (1998), that there is not necessarily any physical change in the body position to accompany or indicate a change in perspective. To summarize (Janzen 2004, 152⫺153): Rather than using a physical shift in space to encode differing perspectives as described above, signers frequently manipulate the spatially constructed scene in their discourse by mentally rotating it so that other event participants’ perspectives align with the signer’s stationary physical vantage point."[Pfau, Roland, Markus Steinbach, and Bencie Woll *Sign Language: An International Handbook*. Mouton De Gruyter, 2012.]

09. "In addition to their external relevance, texts display internal consistency between sentences, which we call cohesion (10. 2): '"Cohesion" is defmed as the set of possibilities that exist in the language for making text hang together: the potential that the speaker or writer has at his disposal' (Halliday and Hasan, 1976, pp. 18-19). Cohesion is not the only factor which contributes to the impression of unity gained by the participants in the text-creation process (reading and interpreting text is an activity no less creative than writing); but it is the most significant since it operates beyond the limits of the sentence."[(auth.), Anthony F. Hartley *Linguistics for Language Learners*. Palgrave Macmillan UK, 1982.]

10. "In this connection two aspects are of specific importance: one aspect concerns the relation between spoken language and the written text, and the other concerns the persistence and stability of the text itself. Both aspects have repercussions for the participants’ conceptualization of writing, of reading, of text, and of language, and require them to invent semiological means for paying the integrational price that digital communication demands. The users’ response to the expressive opportunities of CMC makes it impossible to maintain the belief, traditionally held in linguistics, that written texts are surrogates for speech."[Duncker, Dorthe *The Reflexivity of Language and Linguistic Inquiry : Integrational Linguistics in Practice*. New York ; Routledge, 2019.]

11. "As MS notes, much of the language of the text, the recurrence of words to do with darkness, uncertainty, negation and so on reflects the underlying theme of the novel. In a way they serve as a backdrop, a mise-en-scene. But it is the events and characters, figures against this ground, that activate the theme and give it dramatic force, create the literary significance that make the text into a novel."[Gerbig, Andrea, and Oliver Mason *Language, People, Numbers: Corpus Linguistics and Society (Language and Computers : Studies in Practical Linguistics)*. Rodopi, 2008.]

12. "For the same reason, the perspective in question must pay attention to ﬂexible processes of making linguistic choices, both in production and in interpretation, from a variable (and in principle inﬁnite) range of options, in a manner that is negotiable and dynamic rather than mechanical, thus betraying a high degree of adaptability. It is the purpose of the following pages to translate this theoretical stance into a number of more practical observations. A WORLD OF COMMUNICATION The social world is truly a world of communication, discourse, or rhetoric."[*Companion To Semiotics and Linguistics* Routledge, 2010.]

13. "The syntactic distribution of reference types was also briefly considered. Finally, the possibility of underlying referential dimensions, and the relations of those dimensions to previously identified textual dimensions, was addressed through an exploratory factor analysis. Future research could extend the analyses here in several directions, considering additional genres, more texts within genres, and longer texts. The distribution of these features within texts and within genres are questions that deserve empirical investigation in their own right."[Svartvik, Jan *Directions in Corpus Linguistics*. Reprint 2011 ed. De Gruyter Mouton, 1992.]

14. "This may be realized through the use of uttered speech (i. e. dialogue) or inner speech (in the form of the so-called interior (inner) monologue and/or short in-sets o f interior speech), the latter helping the author (and the reader) to “peep into the inner world of the character, to observe his views and ideas, to penetrate his innermost thoughts” [166, p. 101]. Striving to convey all the subtlest nuances of the character’s mental processes, some contemporary writers resort to the so-called stream-of-consciousness technique."[Кароліна., Лотоцька *Стилістика англійської мови*. 2017.]

15. "But the literary critic deals with it as a novel, a discourse, a particular genre of verbal art. So they are naturally inclined to notice different things: features of the text on the one hand, aspects of the novel on the other. To return now to the point made earlier about the two possible directions of enquiry in stylistics, it seems obvious that we need to identify literary features first. In the present case, we need to consider not which linguistic features can be analysed out of the text, but which features seem to be significant in realizing different aspects of the novel."[Gerbig, Andrea, and Oliver Mason *Language, People, Numbers: Corpus Linguistics and Society (Language and Computers : Studies in Practical Linguistics)*. Rodopi, 2008.]