Created: 2025-12-19 15:59:33
Origin: searched
Selected: Seen in this way, topos theory stands not so much as a rival to set theory per se as an alternative to formalised set theory in presenting a rigorous explication, a foundation, of our intuitive notion of "set". One of the most significant achievements of topos theory is to have crystallised the core of basic set theory in one concept that is manifest in such hitherto diverse contexts. Thus we can apply the "set of points" notion and our familiarity with it to the structures of algebraic geometry, intuitionistic logic, and monoid representations.[Goldblatt, Robert *Topoi: The Categorial Analysis of Logic*. Revised. Amsterdam ; New York ; North-Holland ; New York, N.Y: Elsevier, 1984.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Seen in this way, topos theory stands not so much as a rival to set theory per se as an alternative to formalised set theory in presenting a rigorous explication, a foundation, of our intuitive notion of "set". One of the most significant achievements of topos theory is to have crystallised the core of basic set theory in one concept that is manifest in such hitherto diverse contexts. Thus we can apply the "set of points" notion and our familiarity with it to the structures of algebraic geometry, intuitionistic logic, and monoid representations."[Goldblatt, Robert *Topoi: The Categorial Analysis of Logic*. Revised. Amsterdam ; New York ; North-Holland ; New York, N.Y: Elsevier, 1984.]

02. "A set with nine members has 512 (i. e. , 29) parts. But with an inﬁnite set⎯and all human situations are inﬁnite⎯the excess of parts over elements is, thanks to the undecidability of the continuum hypothesis, properly immeasurable. So are the ontological consequences Badiou draws from this excess. This gap between α (a set that counts as one its members or elements) and the set of its subsets p(α) (a set that counts as one its included parts or subsets) indicates precisely “the point at which lies the impasse of being” (EE, 97; cf."[Hallward, Peter *Badiou: A Subject To Truth*. Univ Of Minnesota Press, 2003.]

03. "It is no accident that a leading philosopher of mathematics presents the concept 278 / Generic or Speciﬁc?of set as “completely structure free,”16 or that one of the great authorities on Cantorian set theory concludes that a fully extensional approach is directly at odds with any “structuring” or “unifying” conception of set. 17 In nonontological situations, the mechanics of belonging presumably vary from situation to situation, but Badiou generally pays little attention to these mechanisms."[Hallward, Peter *Badiou: A Subject To Truth*. Univ Of Minnesota Press, 2003.]

04. "EE, 59). If we accept the coherence of this presumption—and this coherence is what the axioms are designed to establish, in purely immanent fashion—what a set is is a collection of these previously given elements, considered as a completed whole. 7 As one textbook puts it, “In set theory, there is really only one fundamental notion: the ability to regard any collection of objects as a single entity (i. e. , a set). ”8 The precise number of elements involved in any such collection is strictly irrelevant to the deﬁnition, and inﬁnite sets actually ﬁgure here as much simpler than large ﬁnite ones. 9 The elements thus collected are always themselves sets, however far we go down the scale toward the inﬁnitely small."[Hallward, Peter *Badiou: A Subject To Truth*. Univ Of Minnesota Press, 2003.]

05. "The same difficulty faces Bunge's position. Bunge [1979] produces both a general and a more specific account of a system. In general a system ~ = over a non-null set T, where «C C T) & (E C T)) & (C n E = C/J) and where S is a non-null set of relations on CUE. A conceptual system is defined where T is a set of conceptual particulars; a concrete system is defined if T is a set of concrete particulars."[(auth.), Joseph Wayne Smith *Reductionism and Cultural Being: A Philosophical Critique of Sociobiological Reductionism and Physicalist Scientific Unificationism*. Springer Netherlands, 1984.]

06. "As mentioned earlier set theory provides a general conceptual framework for mathematics. Now, since category theory, through the notion of topos, has succeeded in axiomatising set-theory, the outcome is an entirely new categorial foundation of mathematicsl The category- theorists attitude that "function" rather than "set membership" can be seen as the fundamental mathematical concept has been entirely vindicated. The pre-eminent role of set theory in contemporary mathematics is suddenly challenged."[Goldblatt, Robert *Topoi: The Categorial Analysis of Logic*. Revised. Amsterdam ; New York ; North-Holland ; New York, N.Y: Elsevier, 1984.]

07. "We have seen in § 2. 1 that free functions are one-one functions. A connective can analogously be characterized as a free operation and a family of connectives as a free family of operations. A set X with a family of operations freely generated by a set of generators E (i. e. set of generative elements, in the style of the terminology we used in this work) is characterized up to isomorphism by the following universal property involving the generative inclusion function h from E to X: For every set X' with a family of operations on X' and every function  from E to X' there is a unique homomorphism  from X to X' such that for every e in E we have (e) = (h(e)) = (e)."[Došen, Kosta *Cut Elimination in Categories*. Revised. Kluwer, Dordrecht, 1999.]

08. "And now after a mere thirty years it offers a new theoretical framework for mathematics itself!The most general universe of current mathematical discourse is the category known at Set, whose objects are the sets and whose arrows are the set functions. Here the fundamental mathematical concepts (number, function, relation) are given formal descriptions, and the specification of axioms legislating about the properties of sets leads to a so called foundation of mathematics. The basic set-theoretic operations and attributes (empty set, intersection, product set, surjective function e. g. )"[Goldblatt, Robert *Topoi: The Categorial Analysis of Logic*. Revised. Amsterdam ; New York ; North-Holland ; New York, N.Y: Elsevier, 1984.]

09. "The goal is to review some recent developments that indicate an unexpected relationship between descriptive set theory within the context of determinacy and conventional combinatorial set theory. Before reviewing the basic concepts we are compelled to point out that one of the fundamental and more subtle relationships will be ignored, specifically that of determinacy and large cardinals. At a simple level the difference between set theory and descriptive set theory is that between the class of (arbitrary) sets and the class of definable sets."[Barcan-Marcus, Ruth, George J. W. Dorn, and Paul Weingartner *Logic, Methodology and Philosophy of Science, VII: International Congress Proceedings: 7th*. North-Holland, 1986.]

10. "This overture is dividing into three acts, each comprising one part of the threehour mini course that generated these lecture notes. In the first, we explore how a simplicial set can be used to model the weak composition of an (∞, 1)-category and consider the extra structure required to extend these ideas to provide a simplicial model of (∞, 2)-categories. This line of inquiry leads naturally to the definition of a a complicial set as a stratified (read “marked”) simplicial set in which composable simplices admit composites."[Riehl, Emily *Complicial sets, an ouverture*. version 19 Dec 2016. 2016.]

11. "I had given an obvious justification of this axiom by applying the idealized sense of overviewing together or running through all members of a given set. Suppose we are given a set and a one-one correlation between the members of the set and certain other given sets. If we put, for each Set Theory and Logic as Concept Theory 259 element of the set, its corresponding set in its place, we are able to run through the resulting collection as well."[Wang, Hao *A Logical Journey: From Godel to Philosophy*. Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1996.]

12. "This implication Badiou takes to be already contained in Cantor’s Theorem – the starting point of all set theory – according to which the power set (i. e. the set of all subsets) of any given set has a greater cardinality (i. e. numerical value) than the set itself. Thus the latter will include not only all its members counted one-by-one but also the various combinations (subsets) into which those members may be placed, thus yielding an excess of subsets over set that grows exponentially with the size of the original set right up to the multiple orders of infinity where of course it surpasses the utmost powers of any finite enumerative reckoning. 17 Paradoxically enough it is the knowledge of this shortfall in the present capacity of thought to encompass such truths or to bring them within the scope of attainable knowledge that Badiou sees as driving the constant quest for more powerful, refined and elaborate modes of set-theoretical investigation."[Norris, Christopher *Badiou's 'Being and Event': A Reader's Guide (Reader's Guides)*. Continuum, 2009.]

13. " COMPLICIAL SETS, AN OVERTURE EMILY RIEHL Abstract. The aim of these notes is to introduce the intuition motivating the notion of a complicial set, a simplicial set with certain marked “thin” simplices that witness a composition relation between the simplices on their boundary. By varying the marking conventions, complicial sets can be used to model (∞, n)-categories for each n ≥ 0, including n = ∞. For this reason, complicial sets present a fertile setting for thinking about weak infinite dimensional categories in varying dimensions."[Riehl, Emily *Complicial sets, an ouverture*. version 19 Dec 2016. 2016.]

14. "The step from the existence of all subsets of an infinite set to the overviewability of its power set clearly involves a strong idealization of our intuition. This matter of presupposition, so far as existence is concerned, is not a question of temporal priority. The point is, rather, that, conceptually, objects have to exist in order for the set of them-as their unity-to exist. The axiom of replacement says that, if there is a one-one correlation between a collection and a set, then the collection is also a set."[Wang, Hao *A Logical Journey: From Godel to Philosophy*. Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1996.]

15. "A # is thus the set of abstract systems generated from A by the employment of the canonical composition rules. Finally, we wish to identify or select out of A# a subset, 8, corresponding to the "abstract biological systems. "The words of A# not in 8 are the "abstract nonbiological systems. "The set of rules we use to make such a selection or identification of the elements of 8 we may suggestively call a "grammar. "We thus have a sequence of operations going from the set A of abstract atomic systems to the set A#, the set of abstract words, to the set 8 (the set of abstract biological systems), which may be represented by the following diagram: A juxtapositjon A # ~ rules rules 8 (""grammar") Now the set A of abstract atomic systems can in principle be realized in physical terms in many different ways."[(auth.), George J. Klir *Facets of Systems Science*. 2nd ed. Springer US, 2001.]