Created: 2025-12-07 17:22:05
Origin: suggested
Selected: The emergence of architecture as a professional class seems to have at least some relationship to emergent complexities themselves. One hundred fifty years ago, it was the requirement of literacy that could distinguish an architect from a common mason. 5 In more recent history, it was a literacy in complex code and building systems that could distinguish the architect from his associates in the building trades. When technology surges, the role of the architect is validated. The last twenty-five years stand as an exception to the historical rule.[Cesal, Eric J. *Down Detour Road: An Architect in Search of Practice*. The MIT Press, 2010.]

--- Context List ---
01. "The emergence of architecture as a professional class seems to have at least some relationship to emergent complexities themselves. One hundred fifty years ago, it was the requirement of literacy that could distinguish an architect from a common mason. 5 In more recent history, it was a literacy in complex code and building systems that could distinguish the architect from his associates in the building trades. When technology surges, the role of the architect is validated. The last twenty-five years stand as an exception to the historical rule."[Cesal, Eric J. *Down Detour Road: An Architect in Search of Practice*. The MIT Press, 2010.]

02. "The Marxist architectural historian Manfredo Tafuri even named “viscosity” as the reason that architecture successfully infitrated, in the late twentieth century, a conservation discourse once dominated by painterly concepts. 21 This shift provides an apt heuristic for thinking more broadly about how architecture’s historical depth—or its capacity as a medium for storing history—has changed in the international imagination since the 1970s. Keeping this notion of viscosity in mind, I want to briefly outline four ways that politics, technology, and aesthetics intersect in global preservation practice today."[Allais, Lucia *Designs of Destruction: The Making of Monuments in the Twentieth Century*. University of Chicago Press, 2018.]

03. "Printing and the advent of comparative linguistics were far from the sole challenges to architecture’s cultural significance, but the questions of means and meaning inherent to these two metaphors touch on the most pressing issues that architects faced then, and still struggle with today. Cockerell’s conception of ornaments effectively challenges the static interpretation of these metaphors, and this chapter traces how a passive reading of the building as text can lead to an active experience mediated by the building’s ornaments at work."[Bordeleau, Anne *Charles Robert Cockerell, Architect in Time: Reflections Around Anachronistic Drawings*. New edition. Ashgate Pub Co, 2014.]

04. "Beyond the consideration of architecture itself as a representation – the petrifaction of historical time – it is imperative to foreground the multi-dimensional interplay between time and architecture in order to challenge the current emphasis on the self-referencing of both architecture and subject. Responding to Baudelaire’s belief that ‘La forme d’une ville change, hélas, plus vite que le coeur d’un mortel’,14 it has been argued that architecture is asked to hold time not by its supposed stability, but by building time itself. 15 This points to a renewed definition of the epistemological dimension of architecture."[Bordeleau, Anne *Charles Robert Cockerell, Architect in Time: Reflections Around Anachronistic Drawings*. New edition. Ashgate Pub Co, 2014.]

05. "But a nimble activist strand of the architectural profession is periodically activated in the wake of natural disasters and humanitarian crises. Some agencies for applied academic research also deploy architectural tools to create place-based, cartographic, or even juridical critiques of violence—ones where the distinction between historic and functionalist architecture is entirely and productively blurred. 23 Second, heritage has become a liquid asset."[Allais, Lucia *Designs of Destruction: The Making of Monuments in the Twentieth Century*. University of Chicago Press, 2018.]

06. "Architects themselves, however, carry vague definitions of the term. Phenomena like the division between design architects and architects of record only serve to perpetuate the problem of defining architecture. Bernard Tschumi calls this split the “Third Dissociation,” and opines that the split is disconcerting because it is part of “an historical evolution where the architect becomes more and more distanced from the forces that govern the production of buildings today. ”1 The Named Architect 175 Another significant fissure is that between built architecture and “paper” architecture."[Cesal, Eric J. *Down Detour Road: An Architect in Search of Practice*. The MIT Press, 2010.]

07. "Indeed, Cockerell considered ornaments to be the foil through which architecture communicated its motives. While much has changed in the past 200 years, contemporary architects can gain great insights from a better comprehension of nineteenth-century approaches to the already shifting relation between architecture, time, and history. This book stems from the consideration of the contemporary situation of architecture. In the past 30 years, the conditions that led to the advent of postmodernism, and the lingering difficulty of qualifying contemporary architecture as modern, supermodern, hyper-modern or simply late-modern have brought to the fore some fundamental questions in relation to architecture’s relation to time."[Bordeleau, Anne *Charles Robert Cockerell, Architect in Time: Reflections Around Anachronistic Drawings*. New edition. Ashgate Pub Co, 2014.]

08. "See also New Architecture and City Planning, ed. Paul Zucker (New York: Philosophical Library, 1944); and Wolfgang Schivelbusch, Three New Deals (New York: MacMillan, 2007), 1–16. 84. “Nine Points,” 50. 85. Sigfried Giedion, The Eternal Present (New York: Bollinger Foundation, 1962–1964) and Architecture and the Phenomena of Transition (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1971). One deliberate precedent was Gottfried Semper, who distinguished various forms of monumentality in Style in the Technical and Tectonic Arts [1860–1871], trans, Harry Francis Mallgrave and Michael Robinson (Santa Monica: Getty Research Institute, 2004)."[Allais, Lucia *Designs of Destruction: The Making of Monuments in the Twentieth Century*. University of Chicago Press, 2018.]

09. "Good architecture is always a provocation. In that sense, the Case Study House program, sponsored by Arts <£ Architecture magazine under John Entenza, was exemplary. 11The journal commissioned a number of architects to design houses as prototypes for a new way of living—the postwar way of living. The twenty-six houses resulting from this program were not only published in Arts <£ Architecture but, for the most part, built."[Colomina, Beatriz *Domesticity at War*. The MIT Press, 2007.]

10. "Yet, the debates on architecture were not just about architecture. While matters of material construction, design, the social and political functions of buildings, and spatial/territorial planning provided the impetus and focus for debates, they also referenced profoundly symbolic visions of wider social, political, cultural, and anthropological transformation (Marziliano 2010: 23–5). Architectural debates in Fascist Italy were rich in theoretical substance, sweeping in visionary terms, and invested with an epochal significance that transcended their professional context."[(auth.), Aristotle Kallis *The Third Rome, 1922–1943: The Making of the Fascist Capital*. Palgrave Macmillan UK, 2014.]

11. "The idea of "architecture for architecture's sake" that we hear from Hans Hollein and Arata Isozaki has much in common with this logoscentrism. The architecture with a capital "A" that Isozaki advocates, architecture as form, Noam Chomsky'S deep linguistic structure and universal grammar are all examples of logos-centrism and the universality that characterized the age of the machine."[Kurokawa, Kisho *The Philosophy of Symbiosis*. 2nd. 1994.]

12. "5. Jason Timberlake and Stephen Kieran, Refabricating Architecture: How Manufacturing Methodologies Are Poised to Transform Building Construction (New York: McGraw Hill, 2004), p. 53. Chapter 14 1. John Cullen, “Structural Aspects of the Architectural Profession,” in Judith Blau, Mark E. La Gory, and John S. Pipkin, eds. , Professionals and Urban Form (Albany: State University of New York Press, 1983), p. 287. 2. John Worthington, “The Changing Context of Professional Practice,” in David Nicol and Simon Pilling, eds. , Changing Architectural Education: Toward a New Professionalism (New York: Spon Press, 2000), p. 33."[Cesal, Eric J. *Down Detour Road: An Architect in Search of Practice*. The MIT Press, 2010.]

13. "Contrary to the tendency to treat ephemeral architecture as a derivative from solid, built architecture, it is precisely in the ephemeral world of paper architecture that fundamental issues about buildings and their viewers, the classical and the modern, past and present were acted out. Note 1 The research on which this chapter is based was funded very generously by the Dutch Foundation for Scientific Research (NWO). Bibliography Alberti, L. B. (1992)The Art of Building in Ten Books, introduction, translation and notes by N. Leach, J. Rykwert and R. Tavernor."[Macy, C. *Festival Architecture (The Classical Tradition in Architecture)*. 2007.]

14. "When this meaning creates a feeling, an atmosphere, architecture contains the possibility of approaching poetic creation. To regard architecture no more than actual space, a stacking of bricks on top of each other, is to accept the models of the pyramid and the tree. There is an alternative: to consider all the elements of architecture as words (signs), between which new meanings, atmospheres can be created. Since all elements of the work of architecture -- the pillars, ceilings, walls, stairways, windows, skylight, rooms enclosed by wall, entranceways, open spaces, furniture, lighting, door handles, the treatment of the walls -- exist as quotations, as transformations, as sophistication, as connotations, as symbolizations, as intermediations, the solid, substantial architecture, the stack of bricks is already deconstructed."[Kurokawa, Kisho *The Philosophy of Symbiosis*. 2nd. 1994.]

15. "One hastens to add that looking like a sleekly beautiful machine is for Corbusier a new way to look like architectural art: the famous slogan is after all a figure of speech, coming from a new aesthetic place but aesthetic nevertheless. This was not exactly Loos’s way of stating the specially qualified non-art case for architecture, but it is effectively something he in some sense stated first. That ‘Ornament and Crime’ always turns out to be more challenging than one expects, concerns the difficulty of breaking through conventional presuppositions about ornament as necessarily a refinement, to which even the Papuan-Maori analogue for the cultural ‘stragglers’ of modern times is subordinate."[Loos, Adolf *Ornament and Crime*. Penguin Books Ltd, 2019.]