Created: 2025-12-12 20:39:24
Origin: searched
Selected: One could reiterate Meyer’s reflections on the relationship between the roof and the enclosure and argue for the importance of construction for the present architecture. This discussion also entails the specificity of the conversion of matter into form; although mediatic techniques have opened a different perceptual field, architectural form is still realized through techniques that can transform historical style into constructive style. Here I would like to draw two conclusions from my excursion into Benjamin’s notes on construction.[Hartoonian, Gevork *Walter Benjamin and architecture*. London, New York: Routledge, 2010.]

--- Context List ---
01. "One could reiterate Meyer’s reflections on the relationship between the roof and the enclosure and argue for the importance of construction for the present architecture. This discussion also entails the specificity of the conversion of matter into form; although mediatic techniques have opened a different perceptual field, architectural form is still realized through techniques that can transform historical style into constructive style. Here I would like to draw two conclusions from my excursion into Benjamin’s notes on construction."[Hartoonian, Gevork *Walter Benjamin and architecture*. London, New York: Routledge, 2010.]

02. "Mies’s later work epitomizes the architectonic issues implied in Benjamin’s remarks on the conversion of natural material into building material, and the contrast between historical style and constructive style. At the same time, Mies’s architecture deterritorializes the modernist understanding of architecture; his work has left most contemporary architects with no choice but to return to the ethos of historical eclecticism, or to the tradition of the historical avant-garde, now approached through digital techniques. 41 Second, Benjamin’s assertion that technique determines the formal in art and architecture needs a detailed discussion of the way mediatic techniques transform form in architecture."[Hartoonian, Gevork *Walter Benjamin and architecture*. London, New York: Routledge, 2010.]

03. "My emphasis on ‘construction’ should not be taken for an operative agenda. In this essay, I wanted to read Benjamin in conjunction with Botticher and Semper’s theories and stress the import of the particularity of architecture, the culture of building. 52 Therefore, Benjamin’s distinction between constructive form and stylistic form should be addressed: architecture retains its particularity by distancing itself from both the work of art and engineering."[Hartoonian, Gevork *Walter Benjamin and architecture*. London, New York: Routledge, 2010.]

04. "Whoever is interested in theory should read Cacciari. His work is an essential contribution to cultural studies, including architectural theory, which took in the mid-seventies and eighties a very precise form, that of a historical and theoretical debate on architecture transcending national frontiers and academic disciplinary divisions. In this introduction I shall not discuss Cacciari's opinions on the main figures treated in Architecture and Nihilism: Simmel, Weber, Benjamin, and Loos."[Cacciari, Massimo, Stephen Sartarelli (transl.), and Patrizia Lombardo (introduction) *Architecture and Nihilism: On the Philosophy of Modern Architecture*. Yale University Press, 1995.]

05. "It is not used solely to build an argument or rationalize form but to disturb our process of design and expose unique social, environmental, and cultural issues embedded in the initial constraints of each project. As a design evolves, we renegotiate its conceptual framework through a process that is inherently fluid, adaptive, and self-critical. We use research to undermine many assumptions about architecture as a discipline, such as the fixity of building type, the hierarchy of facade and entry, the rigid nature of program, and the universal and global character that modern architecture has put into place."[James, Vincent, and Jennifer Yoos *VJAA: Vincent James Associates Architects*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2006.]

06. "p. cm. — (Writing architecture) Includes bibliographical references and index. ISBN 0-262-57149-8 (pbk. : alk. paper) 1. Architecture—Philosophy. 2. Space (Architecture)—Philosophy. I. Title. II. Series. NA2500 . G76 2001 720´. 1—dc21 2001018300 Acknowledgments vii Foreword by Peter Eisenman xi Introduction xv Part One Embodied Spaces one Embodying Space: An Interview two Lived Spatiality (The Spaces of Corporeal Desire) 31 Futures, Cities, Architecture 49 four Architecture from the Outside 57 ﬁve Cyberspace, Virtuality, and the Real: Some three 3 Part Two Transitional Spaces Architectural Reflections six 75 In-Between: The Natural in Architecture and Culture 91 Part Three Future Spaces seven The Future of Space: Toward an Architecture of Invention 109 eight Embodied Utopias: The Time of Architecture 131 nine Architectures of Excess 151 The Thing 167 ten Notes 185 Bibliography 207 Index 215 I am an outsider to the ﬁeld of architecture."[Grosz, Elizabeth *Architecture from the Outside: Essays on Virtual and Real Space (Writing Architecture)*. 2001.]

07. "This chapter, however, has dealt with specific floor plan arrangements, defining a proposed architectural reality. Whenever a floor plan arrangement emerges in any stage of the planning process, some form of three-dimensional sketch, no matter how rough or tentative, can be useful. It is not necessary to debate here whether a solidly functional floor plan is more important than a visually satisfying space; both are crucial to well-designed and sustainable interiors."[Karlen, Mark, and Rob Fleming *Space Planning Basics, 4th Edition*. 4th ed. Wiley, 2016.]

08. "It is what guarantees the identity of each part by according to it its "proper place" in the work as a whole: identity is place. Identity is having a proper place in the architectonic/tectural whole. By the same token, form is achieved by the interaction of all parts working in concern: "form is not the aim of our work [this would be classicism] but only the result. "29 Form, like identity, is a function of the workasawhole, a whole foreshadowed in Descartes's model of the unity of the sciences and brought to speculative completion in Kant's idea of the ideal systematic whole of pure reason."[Shapiro, Gary *After the Future: Postmodern Times and Places*. Albany: State University of New York Press, 1990.]

09. "How does form relate to the exterior?Although Derrida does not use this terminology, we propose that form is the mastery of 'the exterior', the imposition of order on chaos in hylomorphic production. In the Husserlian context, this means sense is preformed to allow its exteriorization in expression, to allow an object drawn from its conceptualizable nucleus to be held for vision in an intuition with the form of the living present. What then would be a non-formal relation to 'the exterior'?"[Protevi, John *Political Physics: Deleuze, Derrida and the Body Politic*. The Athlone Press, 2001.]

10. "It is here that it is instructive to position the engagement and use of new digital media within architecture as part of these larger cultural transformations; for there is a parallel rise between the use of digital technology within architecture and popular entertainment. During the period that architecture slowly moved to adopt digital means of drawing and modelling these systems were producing ever more ‘realistic’ representations of architectural space within popular game environments."[Arya, Rina *Francis Bacon: Critical and Theoretical Perspectives*. Peter Lang International Academic Publishers, 2012.]

11. "21 Form. It follows forthwith that form is also in question: from having been (in Plato and Aristotle) the decisive determinant that brings messy matter into eidetic shape, it becomes itself an undecidable. Like the delightfully ambiguous French word tombe, we cannot decide in advance on the form of things, whether these be words or built structures. Hence the use of indeterminate boundaries in much postmodern architecture (e. g. , the way in which Kresge College backs gracefully into the redwood. Place."[Shapiro, Gary *After the Future: Postmodern Times and Places*. Albany: State University of New York Press, 1990.]

12. "The term “building” is itself circumscribed by assumptions about functional boundaries, institutional identity, economic resources, and the realization of a physical form as a discrete cultural event. Architects are expected to challenge a building’s form but not its ideological underpinning or the urbanism that it suggests. Architect and theorist Neil Leach calls this “architecture’s intoxication with aesthetics,”3 and it is central to the inability of architects to effectively address issues of urbanization in more comprehensive terms."[James, Vincent, and Jennifer Yoos *VJAA: Vincent James Associates Architects*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2006.]

13. "Creativity, problem solving, a deep understanding of the objectives and underlying issues, and sensitivity to the effected environments (physical, social, economic) are key traits. Architecture creates form and inspires the future. Catherine McNeel Florreich, Associate AIA, Architectural Intern, Eley Guild Hardy Architects, PA  Architecture is the special place, the extraordinary space that enriches our lives. Diane Blair Black, AIA, Vice-President, RTKL Associates, Inc.  Architecture is the forming of space and program into an aesthetic system."[Waldrep, Lee W. *Becoming an Architect: A Guide to Careers in Design*. 2nd ed. Wiley, 2009.]

14. "We should note here, however, that when it comes to deconstructing the opposition of form and matter the notion of trace closes off any notion of material selfordering as the source of production of the real. In a word, trace, while it cannot be located as either of the poles of the conceptual relation of form and matter, remains bound to that pair as its deformation. For the purposes of this book, then, trace is tied to conceptuality, even as a quasi-concept, a name for the breakdown of the conceptualizing power of form."[Protevi, John *Political Physics: Deleuze, Derrida and the Body Politic*. The Athlone Press, 2001.]

15. "More than did Rotary Arc or Shift, Terminal lets us intuit how this regular style of "form" is completely one with "matter", such that its form is the materiality itself coming forward as a progressive transcending of its ownmost sinuosity. However, it is equally important to notice that this rationalist planning, calculation and engineering of the earth includes every kind of technological, designing and language system."[(auth.), Samuel B. Mallin *Art Line Thought*. Springer Netherlands, 1996.]