Created: 2025-12-27 02:20:16
Origin: searched
Selected: How dull, in contrast, are intact stairs who stand with ease, paying no attention to the perfect state of their matter. Such stairs rise despite their steps. The function transcends the material. The material is instrumental to an overriding activity that pursues its goal without noticeable difficulty. A flight of stairs is but of fleeting interest, unless it is a new and remarkable form.[Ginsberg, Robert *The Aesthetics of Ruins: Illustrated by the Author*. Rodopi, 2004.]

--- Context List ---
01. "The elevated moving stairs and exciting lifts create a new art form (Figures 3. 18a and 3. 18b). The success rests upon the innate curiosity of people to ascend and move to brighter elements in the interior. Vertigo is combated by tinted glass balustrades, ledges and high-level handrailing. 3. 2 Accommodation stairs Accommodation stairs are de®ned as additional or amenity stairs in excess of means of escape provisions."[Blanc, Sylvia, and Alan Blanc *Stairs, Second Edition*. Architectural Press, 2001.]

02. "How dull, in contrast, are intact stairs who stand with ease, paying no attention to the perfect state of their matter. Such stairs rise despite their steps. The function transcends the material. The material is instrumental to an overriding activity that pursues its goal without noticeable difficulty. A flight of stairs is but of fleeting interest, unless it is a new and remarkable form."[Ginsberg, Robert *The Aesthetics of Ruins: Illustrated by the Author*. Rodopi, 2004.]

03. "Applications for the copyright holder's written permission to reproduce any part of this publication should be addressed to the publishers British Library Cataloguing in Publication Data Blanc, Sylvia Stairs. ± 2nd ed. 1. Staircases 2. Stairs I. Title II. Blanc, Alan 721. 8 0 32 Library of Congress Cataloguing in Publication Data A catalogue record for this book is available from the Library of Congress ISBN 0 7506 4846 5 Printed and bound in Great Britain Contents Foreword vii 1 Introduction 1 2 Civic and public stairs 3 Commercial stairs 4 Domestic stairs 5 External stairs 5 29 47 70 6 Detailed construction: timber 92 7 Detailed construction: iron, steel and other metals 114 8 Concrete stairs 136 9 Stonework and composite construction 151 10 Design codes and procedures 11 Elevators and mechanical circulation 178 12 International case studies 13 Case studies in the UK Epilogue Index 230 231 200 213 158 This Page Intentionally Left Blank Foreword It is cause for wonderment that the seemingly mundane device de®ned as `a means of passing from one level to another by increments, more or less comforable ± the vertical measures known as risers and the horizontal goings as treads' has, through history, generated such richly charged cultural and technical invention."[Blanc, Sylvia, and Alan Blanc *Stairs, Second Edition*. Architectural Press, 2001.]

04. "The anonym ous equality of its  inhabitants is reflected in the  exterior facad e of their hom es » -*% t PAGE 147 STAIR STAIR PAGE 149 PAGE 150 STAIR STAIR PAGE 151 STAIR PAGE 152 Preface The images intthis book reveal an  enthusiastic attitude to a self-motivated  task, a love for 'his' Viennese stairs^ In  light and in shadow, Peter Tolzer scans  the room, identifies relationships, wnich  are barely visible to ^he distracted stair  user, and caresses every detail withjhis  camera."[INPUT: stair.pdf]

05. "H o w e ve r, once the tread is of sufficient  depth/ and in order to allow the stair  user to step pro- and regressively  without falling into a potentially  dangerous monotony, it is appropriate  to modify Baumler's idea. A first variant is proposed by the  Centre for Stair Research. It maintains  all treads of one flight at the same  depth. This, combined with differential  riser heights, results in challenging the  stair user with changing lengths of  step, which activates their reactions. The basic premise of this thought is  that, when climbing a stair, the length  of step is more essential than the effort  of shifting one's weight up or down  the stairs. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

06. "During light density conditions, Hoskins (2011) found that occupants tended to stay to the inside of the stair. One study (Peacock et al. 2011) used a multiple regression model and found that which side of the stair occupants were on was significant in determining their movement speed. One author attempted to quantify the line-of-travel distance between occupants."[Hoskins, Bryan L., and James A. Milke (auth.) *Study of Movement Speeds Down Stairs*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2013.]

07. "The nineteenth century saw the development of new and stronger structural materials, and the pace of change gave no opportunity for designs in these materials to be developed by trial and error. That led directly to the involvement of engineers in stair design, since their skills provided a means of designing stairs economically in new materials using mathematical calculations, which was quicker and cheaper than allowing new designs to evolve by rule of thumb."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

08. "Some people still protest that such a distinction should still be made – that the word ‘staircase’ should mean the enclosure and not the stair. However, this definition does not reflect either the OED or common usage. As the OED admits, the word staircase is now (and has been for some time) used to mean ‘a flight of stairs or sometimes a whole series of flights of stairs with their supporting framework, balusters etc. ’ This book will follow the OED definition and the general understanding, that a staircase means the whole, made up of stairs, balusters, handrails, etc."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

09. "For stairs, occupants first ascended and then descended stairs after a 5-min rest. No information was provided about the number of steps or stair dimensions, but the speed was measured along the slope of the stairs. Forty-two subjects were able to participate in the stair portion of the experiment. Of these, 8 did not have a disability, 4 needed assistance from another person, and 30 had a disability, but were able to use the stairs without the assistance from another person."[Hoskins, Bryan L., and James A. Milke (auth.) *Study of Movement Speeds Down Stairs*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2013.]

10. "The so-called 7/11 stair geometry commonly required in US codes meets the relation 2R+G=635. Templer 15 summarizes a number of research studies of stair geometry and safety. Many such studies were conducted by observing people moving up or down stairs in buildings. Observations in subway or train stations at rush hours provided data for higher population densities."[Bukowski, Richard W. *Emergency Egress From Buildings*. National Institute of Standards and Technology, 2009.]

11. "A few studies were conducted in laboratory settings on specially constructed stair sections where the geometries and stair angle could be varied systematically. Templer himself conducted several of these studies, including some at NBS. Most of the studies reviewed concluded that the measure of Total Energy Cost per Meter Rise is a useful metric for the evaluation of stair design for normal use and comfort; however stair safety is more closely related to the likelihood of missteps which is a function of how the stair relates to the human gait."[Bukowski, Richard W. *Emergency Egress From Buildings*. National Institute of Standards and Technology, 2009.]

12. "Here there are seven creating a grand axis that at one point ascends a stair."[Unwin, Simon *Doorway*. Routledge, 2008.]

13. "NECKING The post, generally square in section, which receives the balustrade hand-rail at a change of direction of a stair or landing; the central post or pillar of a spiral stair, often consisting of a series of drums carved integrally with the stair treads themselves. NEWEL A recess in a wall, often semi-circular in section, to accommodate a statue or other ornament."[(Auth.), Robert Chitham *The Classical Orders of Architecture*. Elsevier Ltd, Architectural Press, 1985.]

14. "NEWEL The post, generally square in section, which receives the balustrade hand-rail at a change of direction of a stair or landing; the central post or pillar of a spiral stair, often consisting of a series of drums carved integrally with the stair treads themselves."[Chitham, Robert *The Classical Orders of Architecture,*. 2nd ed. Architectural Press, 2005.]

15. "Stairs Semicircular stairs nestled between walls of foundation skirting is an excellent feature for distinguishing a fairly undistinguished deck. This small, gray dining deck also features natural wood railings with glass inserts, but it’s the stairs that set a truly sophisticated tone. This is why choosing stair style is always a part of a good deck design—they should never be an afterthought Stair configuration goes far in determining how the deck is perceived."[Peterson, Chris *Deck ideas you can use: creative deck designs for every home & yard*. Minneapolis, Minn: Creative Publishing international, 2011.]

16. "The likelihood of the agents to wait in a queue is determined by their patience coefficient. The model permits to represent the interactions between horizontal and vertical components. Stairs in STEPS There are two different methods to simulate stairs in STEPS. A possible method is the use of the stair menu (see Fig. 4. 24). This menu permits to define the geometric characteristics of the stairs (e. g. , width, height, handrails, walking side, etc."[Ronchi, Enrico, and Daniel Nilsson (auth.) *Assessment of Total Evacuation Systems for Tall Buildings*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2014.]

17. "PAGE 228 STAIR 14. 1996 Spiritual stairs between earth and heaven STAIR PAGE 229 STAIR PAGE 230 15. 1999  Gothic and Renaissance stairs The premise for this research was the idea  that a new feel for life intrinsically had to  produce new products, that alongside the  emergence of a new architecture, new  stairs would arise. The stairs form part of valuable haptic  experiences. Among all the building  components, they reflect most accurately  the habits of its users. An examination of  their original texture and their consequent  changes may allow for conclusions to be  drawn, which can answer the question  raised above regarding the time when  lifestyles changed. In order to obtain the  most convincing results possible, this  general question is broken down into  14 sub-items: "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

18. "At least it can be confirmed with  conviction, that the 'stepping points'  provide a suitable tool for making  generous assumptions, which concern  both the idiosyncrasy of the staircase  in question as well as characteristic NOTE: This stair was previously discussed in  Collectaneen 1 : Friedrich Mielke, Scalalogia, Vol. 1, Gunzenhausen: Schrenk-Verlag, 1985, p.  134/135. It was later revisited in Collectaneen 3,  with new extended stair measurements, drawings  and a new description /  interpretation. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

19. "Anew lifestyle coined new habits,  from high society to the lower-class  bourgeoisie, and it influenced the inclination of stairs. Meanwhile, in farmhouses in the lowlands, we still find  stairs with inclination ratios of 19/10  •etn- 19/18 cm or even 22/13 cm. In its  ^epness, which allows for only small riser depths, a consideration for  economy becomes evident. In this  context, the heights of the steps were  most likely not perceived as excessive. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

20. "The benefit (of Scalalogy) is there for all stair-climbing people. If one studies the ascending  behavior of staircase users, recognizes hazards, and is compelled to compare between  energy expenditure and practical use, one learns to understand the human themselves. Friedrich Mielke: "Denkmalpflege und Treppenforschung" (1989), in (ders. , Flrsg. ): Collectaneen 4, Band IX der Scalalogia-Schriften zur internationalen Treppenforschung (Stamsried: Verlag Ernst Vogel, 2001), S. 12. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

21. "■Wtich Mielke, Scalalogia Volume 6,  jp  ectaneen 3, 1992, "Laurin-Treppe," 88-91. PAGE 168 STAIR -  10. 1992 SCALALOGY -  COLLECTED WRITINGS (VOL 3) MIELKE-LAURIN STAIR Mielke's adaptation of the Laurin  stair. The continuity of the tread  depths combined with the  differentiation of the riser  heights "results in challenging  the stair user with changing  lengths of step, which activates1 0 0 0  mm  their reactions. The basic  premise of this thought is that,  when climbing a stair, the length  of step is more essential than  the effort of shifting one's  weight up or down the stairs. "  (Redrawn by AMO, Dune 2013. ) "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

22. "The stairs are additively  integrated into the series of  rooms, not seen as part of  a spatial experience, but  always as one compartment  within other compartments.  Each staircase is set in an  enclosure that -  at least with  the straight-armed stairs -   has not yet evolved into a  stairwell. For the circular, spiral staircases in Italy (vacua ne l  m ezo), the only European  country with comparable  examples is Germany. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

23. "The Center for Active Design,  a new nonprofit organization, hopes to increase  visibility and access to at least one staircase in all  new buildings in the city. * "W alking up the stairs just  two minutes a day helps pre- vent weight gain. It also helps  the environment. "— Mayor Michael Bloomberg ,,ay°r Bloomberg points out alternative paths through"[INPUT: stair.pdf]

24. "Every stair user has the opportunity to  select either the right or the left run. If one now imagines a great number  of people climbing both flights  simultaneously and inevitably reach'  the floor landings to change directi ^  a stepping path akin to a figure-eight*1'  appears in plan. The architectural relation between the  twin spiral staircases of the late Middl  Ages and the 'passage stairs' of the *  "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

25. "One thing that becomes most apparent here is Mielke's focus on the stair users -  ever present in their multitude. The  stair becomes a palimpsest of observation, which carries complex traces of use: traces of gender, traces of social rank,  traces of craftsmen's rules and transmissions. In the context of his equally disciplined and passionate research, Mielke  coined the term "Scalalogy" -  a term which clearly differentiates itself from basic Stair Research: "Scalalogy is the  science of the interactions between humans and stairs, between foot and step. Since no one could possibly climb a stair  without having contact with its steps, an interdependency is created, between the claims made by the living, and the  reflection of such claims by the material. " "[INPUT: stair.pdf]