Created: 2025-12-29 22:00:57
Origin: searched
Selected: Sense is, thus, necessarily distributed “across . . . local arrangements with relational particularity” and hence enacted transpositionally. For this to become possible, artistic research should be seen as a dispositif rather than a discipline with a heightened attention on the consistency of transpositional operations rather than the form they take. Expanding on Giorgio Agamben’s work, in her chapter, “Without Remainder or Residue: Example, Making Use, Transposition,” Yve Lomax reflects on the power of examples to connect to one another before a rule emerges that is then taken to presuppose the examples.[Schwab, Michael *Transpositions: Aesthetico-Epistemic Operators in Artistic Research*. Leuven University Press, 2018.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Sense is, thus, necessarily distributed “across . . . local arrangements with relational particularity” and hence enacted transpositionally. For this to become possible, artistic research should be seen as a dispositif rather than a discipline with a heightened attention on the consistency of transpositional operations rather than the form they take. Expanding on Giorgio Agamben’s work, in her chapter, “Without Remainder or Residue: Example, Making Use, Transposition,” Yve Lomax reflects on the power of examples to connect to one another before a rule emerges that is then taken to presuppose the examples."[Schwab, Michael *Transpositions: Aesthetico-Epistemic Operators in Artistic Research*. Leuven University Press, 2018.]

02. "Finally, the figural could be a concept and an approach that can be useful in order to discuss aspects of aesthetic displacements related to experimentation and manipulation of moving images in film and new media art. Even if we give a very simplified and operational definition of the figural, this as a way of reducing the concept to one specific meaning, that would be to violate its dynamic and potentiality. Instead, if we consider this approach as a free variation to test some conceptual qualities, then we prepare and let the concept meet the images, to confront them in some sense."[(Editor), Evripides Zantides *Semiotics and Visual Communication: Concepts and Practices*. Cambridge Scholars, 2014.]

03. "2. 2). generating structured data in a humanities interpretation provided our major proof of concept. As a ﬁrst project it provided experience on several levels—technical, conceptual, institutional, and procedural. We took much from this into our work on Ivanhoe, where SpecLab took up the issue of subjectivity within a social space of interpretation and exhibited it more clearly. Subjective Meteorology drew on the same convictions that had motivated Temporal Modeling, but without the constraints of XML or adherence to preexisting nomenclature."[Drucker, Johanna *SpecLab: Digital Aesthetics and Projects in Speculative Computing*. 2009.]

04. ""Using the work of Mathew Jones, I have shown how a single art work can function as a determinable multiplicity. The dynamic territories that we find in his work draw together the pre-individual singularities of percepts and affects such that new subjectivities and existential territories might individuate themselves. The singularities provide an intensive consistency of differences in which new formations crystallize. "3 modelling — exhibitionist, nude, naked, indoors 4 Methodologically, this proposal is carried out through computational experiments that work in the multimodal gap using small, curated datasets from films, subtitles, photographs, and architectural papers."[INPUT: content_small.pdf]

05. "The actions of social practice are expressible but not explicable through discourse: they are, precisely, acted—and not read. A monumental work, like a musical one, does not have a ‘signified’ (or ‘signifieds’); rather, it has a horizon of meaning: a specific or indefinite multiplicity of meanings, a shifting hierarchy in which now one, now another meaning comes momentarily to the fore, by means of—and for the sake of—a particular action."[Leach, Neil *Rethinking Architecture: A Reader in Cultural Theory*. Routledge, 1997.]

06. "Very often this move is joined with an attempt to introduce new terminology and to more finely divide the field of study. So, for example, Gerard Genette [28] renames the broad concept of intertextuality described by Kristeva, calling it transtextuality instead. He then subdivides this overarching concept into more specific effects. Thus, hypertextuality is his name for a large-scale, sustained relationship between works—for example, the relationship between Joyce’s Ulysses and Homer’s Odyssey. He reserves the name intertextuality for the phenomenon in which one specific passage makes reference to a different specific passage in a predecessor—as when, in the opening chapter of Ulysses, Buck Mulligan uses the phrase “Thalatta!"[Forstall, Christopher W., and Walter J. Scheirer *Quantitative Intertextuality: Analyzing the Markers of Information Reuse*. Springer International Publishing, 2019.]

07. "He is sharply opposed to the “easy procedure of a simple enumeration,” observing rather remarkably that painting was partitioned and that some of the products of this partitioning at least can enter film. Müller has concisely summarized the difference between the concept of intermediality delineated above and the concept represented here when confronting Higgins with the problem that he has located “the intermediality of artworks between different media and not within specific media-contexts. ” 21 Fou r M o de l s o f I nt e r m e dial it y By contrast he reads as the quintessential result of Aumont’s analysis: “In the medium ‘film’ concepts and principles of other media are made into subjects and are aesthetically realized as well as the concepts of film are realized in other media” (1994, 133)."[Herzogenrath, Bernd *Travels in Intermediality: ReBlurring the Boundaries*. Dartmouth, 2012.]

08. "For Bennett and Woollacott, the term inter-textuality refers to “the social organisation of the relations between texts within specific conditions of reading” (Bennett and Woollacott 1987: 45). They argue, for instance, that the publicity that surrounds the release of a James Bond film is part of what Bond means, because this material does not just “organise expectations in relation to a particular film but [it also reorganises] the signifying currency of Bond so as to inflect its ideological and cultural articulations” (Bennett and Woollacott 1987: 248)."[Machin, David *Visual Communication*. 2017.]

09. "That mirror is only ever the opening of a specific site. It is the staging of a mode of reflection that neither determines other sites of viewing—thus they are not present in terms of either ease or immediacy—nor provides the structure of viewer/viewed (subject/object) relation. Where those relations are taken to pertain for the entire work. However, there is more at work here than a distancing of certain modes of reflection and thus of immediacy. If works such as Mirror Mirror on the World can be understood in terms of the co-presence of differing sites, each structured by shifting loci each with their own sense of depth, then the works become an opening up and thus an allowing."[Benjamin, Andrew *Writing Art and Architecture*. 2010.]

10. "This is most readily apparent when a second sign, figure, or object is placed within it. In such cases we will call the outer border the volume and the sign within it the object. This automatically produces a geographical situation, the area being divided into sections with different meaning and power of expression, producing concepts such as upper, lower, pushed into a corner, and displayed in the center (see also figures 16a, b). In Oriental art in particular one often finds a frame within which pictorial representations are placed."[Frutiger, Adrian *Signs and Symbols: Their Design and Meaning*. Van Nostrand Reinhold, 1989.]

11. "A core concept of the approach is that of the terministic screen, 114 BLAKESLEY which is a phrase used by Burke to describe how our terms—or more generally the means of representation—direct the attention to one field rather than another such that our observations of experience (all that can be known) are implications of the particular terms themselves (Language as Symbolic Action 46). I conclude by considering what difference it makes for our interpretation of Vertigo and film generally when we see rhetoric’s key term as identification and ground that concept in the visual."[Hill, Charles A., and Marguerite Helmers *Defining Visual Rhetorics*. 2004.]

12. "These looks must now serve the making-sensible of concepts. ’97 The frames are collapsed into one, and the image, in its multidimensional aspect can begin to yield its conceptual character, in effect reflecting the multidimensional form of the Kantian schema itself: This making-sensible can now no longer mean: to get an immediate look, intuition from a concept; for the concept, as the represented universal, cannot be represented in a repraesentatio singularis, which the intuition certainly is."[Zdebik, Jakub *Deleuze and the Diagram: Aesthetic Threads in Visual Organization*. London: Continuum, 2012.]

13. "In raising the concept of ontology, Cavell certainly refers to a set of conditions (“a succession of automatic world projections”) that leads us to intuit a thing as being a ﬁlm rather than possibly 63 a wor ld past something else (a theatrical presentation, a video, etc. ). In this sense he deﬁnes “world” as “the ontological facts of photography and its subjects” (The World Viewed 73). But this intuition derives less from a formal deﬁnition of the object than from the experience of our quotidian encounters with it."[Rodowick, D. N. *The Virtual Life of Film*. 2007.]

14. "The summaries could well be used as preparatory reading before each particular chapter. The reader follows a route whose first concern is with perception; from here we look at the implications of semiotics with particular reference to visual images; we then proceed to question the concept of meaning. Our enquiry is then directed towards other related concepts of particular concern to visual communication. These include the tacit or intuitive factor in knowing, the aesthetic factor, and the frames that guide interpretation."[Jamieson, Harry *Visual Communication: More than Meets the Eye*. Bristol, UK: Intellect Ltd, 2007.]

15. "Similarly, it is often noted in introductory texts on film how camera distance might need to be considered with respect to the norms established within specific films: for example, if an entire film were to consist of shots within which figures are shown at a distance, then a shot that in another film might only count as a medium shot might to some extent work as a close-up. This becomes increasingly complex when human audiovisual perceptual systems are factored in: for example, the phenomenon of colour constancy shows “topdown” influences on colour perception that make straightforward measurement problematic (e. g."[Machin, David *Visual Communication*. 2017.]

16. "In addition, coherence and incoherence between concept descriptions depend on the concept constructors used, and we will say that, for all atomic concepts A, atomic roles R, and concept descriptions C, D ∈ {, ⊥}: • ¬A incoheres with A; • C D coheres both with C and with D; • ∀R. C coheres (or incoheres) with ∀R. D if C coheres (or incoheres) with D. 8 Symmetry follows from the deﬁnition above, and Acceptance is captured by the aim of maximising coherence in a coherence graph. For this we need to deﬁne how a TBox determines a coherence graph, and, in order to keep the graph ﬁnite, we express coherence and incoherence only between non-trivial concept descriptions (i. e. , excluding  and ⊥) that are explicitly stated in the TBox."[Confalonieri, Roberto, Alison Pease, Marco Schorlemmer, Tarek R. Besold, Oliver Kutz, Ewen Maclean, and Maximos Kaliakatsos-Papakostas *Concept Invention: Foundations, Implementation, Social Aspects and Applications*. Springer International Publishing, 2018.]

17. "Kant usefully implies in his Prolegomena that the equal sign is not as neutral as its users might like us to believe. He writes, It might at first be thought that the proposition 7 + 5 = 12 is a mere analytic judgment, following from the concept of seven and five, according to the principle of contradiction. But on closer examination it appears that the concept of the sum of 7 + 5 contains merely their union in a single number, without its being at all thought what the particular number is that unites them."[Scheible, Jeff *Digital Shift: The Cultural Logic of Punctuation*. Univ Of Minnesota Press, 2015.]

18. "He writes, Deconstruction does not consist in moving from one concept to another, but in reversing and displacing a conceptual order as well as the nonconceptual order with which it is articulated. For example, writing, as a classical concept, entails predicates that have been subordinated, excluded, or held in abeyance by forces and according to necessities to be analyzed. It is those predicates (I have recalled several of them) whose force of generality, generalization, and generativity is liberated, grafted onto a “new” concept of writing that corresponds as well to what has always resisted the prior organization of forces, always constituted the residue irreducible to the dominant force organizing the hierarchy that we may refer to, in brief, as logocentric. 5 In this passage, Derrida writes about the importance of working —or, more specifically, writing — within the conceptual order, but of simultaneously “displacing” it from within."[Scheible, Jeff *Digital Shift: The Cultural Logic of Punctuation*. Univ Of Minnesota Press, 2015.]

19. "Jan Baetens asserts this opposition frequently in ‘Abstraction in Comics’ (Baetens 2011). 44 P. F. DAVIES (See Fig. 5. 1 in Chapter 5). A high level of abstraction in the image is represented by ‘non-mimetic’ forms, low abstraction by replicas. Abstraction in experience is increasingly general, rising from the low-abstraction specifics to increasingly generalised concepts, via ‘symbolism’ (in the sense of specific emblems which imply general concepts or notions, as when a given rose may stand for the broader concept ‘love’, or a skull appear as a memento mori), to ‘forces’ or ‘ideas’ (Arnheim 2004, 151)."[Davies, Paul Fisher *Comics As Communication: A Functional Approach*. Palgrave Macmillan, 2019.]

20. "7 is a tempting target for further algorithmic work. Take the example of film: visuals and sounds combine to form the experience for the spectator. Decoupling one from the other may degrade the signal of an allusion, making it harder to identify. In comedy, such multi-modal allusions are integral to the genre of parody. Like much of the work of Mel Brooks, the 1987 film Spaceballs (upper right of Fig. 8. 1) executes this with gut busting precision. Many of the scenes have direct visual correspondence with popular science fiction films, and dialogue that mimics the original source, but is altered just enough to deliver comic effect."[Forstall, Christopher W., and Walter J. Scheirer *Quantitative Intertextuality: Analyzing the Markers of Information Reuse*. Springer International Publishing, 2019.]

21. "In what follows, I present, briefly, some of the different definitions of transduction provided by Simondon. Additionally, I present two further extensions: one to Deleuze’s concept of haecceity (and via Deleuze, to my own micro-haecceity), the other to Brian Massumi’s notion of corporeality. 3 Deleuze was about to present Bergson’s concept of “intuition,” and the sentence I am quoting here was a kind of spoken footnote that prepared the audience for the density and thickness of Bergson’s concept. 249 Paulo de Assis 3. 1."[Schwab, Michael *Transpositions: Aesthetico-Epistemic Operators in Artistic Research*. Leuven University Press, 2018.]

22. "An interesting situation, which should also be ascribed to this realm, is when a composer develops a close relation with a particular performer, and their collaboration brings forth new artistic fruit. To mention only some recent instances in music history, one may remember the artistic tandems of Luciano Berio and Cathy Berberian, encompassing creation, interpretation and perception; also philosophers (such as Ingarden 1986; Goodman 1968; Kivy 1993, among others) have been pondering upon this issue, often coming to the conclusion that the work is a changing entity; even in traditional musicology it has been stated that “fixing a musical work through notation is not sufficient for constructing the notion of a work” (Dahlhaus, quoted in Nattiez 1990, p. 70); however, in conventional musicological analysis, the musical work may often be reduced to its structural, written-down properties."[(eds.), Peter Pericles Trifonas *International Handbook of Semiotics*. Springer Netherlands, 2015.]

23. "This influx is heightened in the Swedish film Kochuu,39 which shows scenes from within the Uehara House of a series of spontaneous functions, both living and work stations, set up around the bracing tree. These partial-spaces are visually imperceptible as walls or enclosures, in the ordinary sense, but are strongly felt once inhabited."[Brott, Simone *Architecture for a Free Subjectivity: Deleuze and Guattari at the Horizon of the Real*. Ashgate Publishing, 2011.]

24. "32 Steinberg chose the term from printing – the horizontal tray in which the type is held – and this has several felicities. It helps him contrast the indifference to orientation in our treatment of printed text compared to painting. The analogy to a shallow tray is also a good description of Rauschenberg’s work. Rauschenberg placed found objects, such as a clock or a ladder along with newsprint and photographs, amongst the paint, making both the paint and the painting object-like. As Steinberg puts it: ‘The picture’s “flatness” is to be no more of a problem than the flatness of a disordered desk or an unswept floor. ’33 Horizontality is not, in the first place, a relation of the viewer to the work, but of the work to the objects within it, which are laid down – a horizontality made apparent through gravity and before any opposition to an upright viewer."[Dorrian, Mark, and Frédéric Poussin (eds.) *Seeing from Above: The Aerial View in Visual Culture*. I.B.Tauris, 2013.]

25. "In this respect, the concept of realism in use by computer graphics professionals has a rather restrictive and circular deﬁnition. It does not correspond to an ordinary spatial sense of the world and actual events taking place within it, but rather to our perceptual and cognitive norms for apprehending a represented space, especially a space that can be represented or constructed according to mathematical notation."[Rodowick, D. N. *The Virtual Life of Film*. 2007.]