Created: 2025-12-19 15:42:44
Origin: searched
Selected: Aldo  van Eyck has said: "Architecture should be conceived of as  a configuration of intermediary places clearly defined. This  does not imply continual transition or endless postpone-  ment with respect to place and occasion. On the contrary, it  implies a break away from the contemporary concept (call  it sickness) of spatial continuity and the tendency to erase  every articulation between spaces, i. e. , between outside and  inside, between one space and another (between one reality  and another).[INPUT: Venturi - 1996 - Complexity and contradiction in architecture.pdf]

--- Context List ---
01. "Aldo  van Eyck has said: "Architecture should be conceived of as  a configuration of intermediary places clearly defined. This  does not imply continual transition or endless postpone-  ment with respect to place and occasion. On the contrary, it  implies a break away from the contemporary concept (call  it sickness) of spatial continuity and the tendency to erase  every articulation between spaces, i. e. , between outside and  inside, between one space and another (between one reality  and another)."[INPUT: Venturi - 1996 - Complexity and contradiction in architecture.pdf]

02. "Here the metaphor of spaceis useful. It is as though a change of distance between meanings occurred within a logical space. The new pertinence or congruence proper to a meaningful metaphoric utterance proceeds from the kind of semantic proximiry which suddenly obtains berween rerms in spite of their distance. Things or ideas which were remote appear now as close. Resemblance ultimately is nothing else than this rapprochement which reveals a generic kinship between heterogeneous ideas."[Adams, Hazard, and Leroy Searle *Critical Theory Since 1965*. University Press of Florida, 1986.]

03. "A game not very different from the discussions above, projecting topographies into universal space — the focus in this setup is on “projected into universal space. ” The term for this mode of expansion and colonialization is (C)N — (N')C — (C)N — (N)C. We’d further say [Figure M] A fractal map. and how identities can be extracted from their natural manifestations—the architectural space, in my case — and raised into a new form of expression; not by making referential relations rooted in a memory one seeks to preserve, but by simply linking it up with whatever inspires one to create a new expression."[Hovestadt, Ludger, and Vera Buhlmann *EigenArchitecture*. Ambra Verlag, 2013.]

04. "In terms of our diagram, this entails a rotation of 90 degrees, from the lateral to the longitudinal. We will find this rotation cropping up again and again, in various connections. Indeed we have already encountered it in the last chapter, in our distinction between ethnographic documentation (lateral) and anthropological transformation (longitudinal). With regard to perception, it underpins the distinction between an optical and a haptic relation to the world – a distinction that explains the quite different experiences of tactility described above, showing that the optical relation is by no means limited to a perception mediated by the eye (nor is the haptic relation limited to the hands)."[Ingold, Tim *Making: Anthropology, Archaeology, Art and Architecture*. Routledge, 2013.]

05. "This framing of the featured architecture with these images of fragmented topographies is meant to underline a contemporary Swiss reality. Within this reality the careful negotiation between private and public primarily to maintain norms and traditions is increasingly compromised. The gradual erosion of the Swiss landscape by urbanisation means that new architecture will in future need to devise entirely new typologies that take account of wholly uncharacteristic forms of public terrain."[Yu, Jasmin *Exhibitions and Showrooms*. Design Media Publishing Ltd, 2011.]

06. "By blurring this distinction, the metaphorical meaning compels us to explore the borderline between the verbal and the nonverbal. The process of schematrzation and that of the bound images aroused and controlled by schematization obtain precisely on that borderline between a semanticsof metaphorical utterancesand a psychology of imagination."[Adams, Hazard, and Leroy Searle *Critical Theory Since 1965*. University Press of Florida, 1986.]

07. "This tension between samenessand difference char acterizes the logical structure of likeness. Imagination, accordinglR is this ability to produce new kinds by assimilation and to produce them not aboue the differsThe Conceptof Mind (New York, 1949),pp. r6ff- [Eds. ]eLanguages 1976),p. 6g. [Eds. ]of Art (Indianapolis, 428 Peur Rlcopun ences,as in the concept, but in spite of and through the differences. Imagination is this stage in the production of genres where generic kinship has not reached the level of conceptual peace and rest but remains caught in the war berween distance and proximitS between remoteness and nearness."[Adams, Hazard, and Leroy Searle *Critical Theory Since 1965*. University Press of Florida, 1986.]

08. "Within this shift, priority is given neither to the end product that a work constitutes, nor to the phantasmatic reference that representation desires. Instead, attention is paid to the in-between ground of the transmission. Mimesis, then, becomes an occurrence of the interface and the expression of a relation. It functions as a border phenomenon, a neither-nor entity on the fauIt lines between two orders, best described as a douhly pointed transmission. Neither a work nor its perceived reality, it is an intermediary capture of both - simultaneously pointing in two directions."[Dimitrova, Zornitsa *Literary Worlds and Deleuze: Expression as Mimesis and Event*. Lexington Books, 2016.]

09. "Différance refers not to a subsisting difference but, to put it poignantly, to that generative gap that can never be sublated (in a Hegelian manner) into a unity in which all determinations (Bestimmtheiteri) spring up and then dissolve once again. Determination —and this is a leitmotif of neostructuralism — is the effect of differential relations between marques of a structure. However, since the differentiality of structure provides no center, the play of differential determination^) is open, and this means that every signification of a term or of an expression that is marked off by a certain context can interminably be altered by a new differentiation in new contexts."[Frank, Manfred, Sabine Wilke, and Richard Gray *What Is Neostructuralism?*. Univ of Minnesota Pr, 1989.]

10. "Today, iconographers Space and sculpture in the Classic Maya city acknowledge more readily that the association between image and text in Mesoamerica did not necessarily parallel that of Europe (Miller 1989: 177). “Mesoamerica[n] . . . systems [of communication] do not allow for an easy distinction between pure text or pure image” (Baddeley 1983: 56), as suggested by the Nahuatl word tlacuiloliztli, which means both “to paint” and “to write” (Boone 1994: 3). Some scholars have sought a “reformation of the definition of writing that considers both verbal and nonverbal systems of graphic communication” (Boone 1994: 4)."[Parmington, Alexander *Space and Sculpture in the Classic Maya City*. Cambridge University Press, 2011.]

11. "For example, the relationship between b and a is different than the relationship between e and a. Whereas access from b to a would be achieved by crossing one boundary, three additional boundaries would have to be traversed to access a from e, including passing through b. Consequently, this difference defines the spatial configuration as asymmetric. Spaces seen to have asymmetric relations “always involve some notion of depth, since we must pass through . . . [intervening spaces] to go Figure 2. 15. Example of “Symmetric” and “Asymmetric” Rela- tionships between “Nodes. ” from one space to another” (Hillier and Hanson 1984: 94)."[Parmington, Alexander *Space and Sculpture in the Classic Maya City*. Cambridge University Press, 2011.]

12. "Because we share this difference, we are in relation to one another. “Being” is thus properly understood as Mit-da-sein, “as relational, as non-absoluteness, and, if you will . . . as community” (IC, 6). Our basic ontological condition is to be open to what Nancy calls “communication” with one another. Communication here is not to be understood in instrumental terms as the transfer of information from one subject to another, but rather as the openness to and difference from one another that makes such transfer possible: “Speech—including silence— is not a means of communication but communication itself, an exposure” (IC, 30–31)."[Nancy, Jean-Luc, Jean-Luc Nancy, Peter Gratton, and Marie-Eve Morin *Jean-Luc Nancy and Plural Thinking: Expositions of World, Ontology, Politics, and Sense*. Albany: State University of New York Press, 2012.]

13. "Knappett, C. and L. Malafouris eds. 2008. Material Agency: Towards a Non-Anthropocentric Approach. New York: Springer. Lakoff, G. and M. Johnson 1999. Philosophy in the Flesh: The Embodied Mind and its Challenge to Western Thought. New York: Basic Books. Laning, E. 1971. The Act of Drawing. New York: McGraw Hill. Lapacherie, J. -G. 1994. Typographic characters: tension between text and drawing, trans. A. Lehmann. Yale French Studies 84: 63–77. Latour, B."[Ingold, Tim *Making: Anthropology, Archaeology, Art and Architecture*. Routledge, 2013.]

14. "l liken it to a euphemistic reference as it performs work without ever naming its denotatum. Here, in attempting to present a way to account for the conversion of absence into presence, of the calling into existence of an entity and making it visible, l evoke Bruno Latour's Pandora's Hope (1999). While such an inclusion may seem far-fetched at first, this book follows an underlying logic that is essentially Deleuzian - and confronts us with a suggestion for bridging the divide between worlds and words: The old settlement started from a gap between words and the world, and then tried to construct a tiny footbridge over this chasm through a risky correspondence between what were understood as totally different ontological domains-Ianguage and nature."[Dimitrova, Zornitsa *Literary Worlds and Deleuze: Expression as Mimesis and Event*. Lexington Books, 2016.]

15. "Those groups were interdisciplinary, their conversation was unspecialized, and involved translation from one mode of discourse to another. This kind of translation involves a neural translation, too, from one mode of mental processing to another, from right-brain geometrical insight to left-brain algebra, from left-brain wordplay to right-brain melodies and pictures, from cortical rational activity to frontolimbic passionate contemplation. Now the transfer of ideas from one mental mode to another implies and perhaps brings into being a higher control function which is not of one or the other, but transcends them."[Turner, Frederick *Rebirth of value: meditations on beauty, ecology, religion, and education*. SUNY Press, 1991.]