Created: 2025-12-27 00:16:44
Origin: suggested
Selected: The museum was designed to show to best advantage its pictures—not itself. Goodwin and Stone entice visitors in with, instead of the usual awesome flight of steps followed by a puzzling series of closets for pictures, a glimpse of a garden behind an all-glass wall, and then surround them with art before they know it. Moreover, this pioneering building—fortified by a series of electrifying exhibitions—was to make “Modern” architecture (and art, design, and photography) acceptable, even fashionable.[Smith, George Everard Kidder *Source Book of American Architecture: 500 Notable Buildings from the 10th Century to the Present*. Princeton Architectural Press, 1997.]

--- Context List ---
01. "To the interior, smooth wall inside-surfaces create pure interior space, while to the city, smooth wall outside-surfaces definite clear open spaces. So the designer abandoned all decoration on both sides of wall, try to create the atmosphere of pure spaces, in order to highlight the art works at the same time."[Yu, Jasmine *Museum Display Design*. Design Media Publishing Limited, 2012.]

02. "Where structure is not exposed but concealed, perhaps hidden within wall cavities, screened by suspended ceilings or undifferentiated from partition walling, it possesses very limited opportunities to enrich architecture. In these situations, where the architecture must rely on other devices and elements for its qualities, any skeletal, wall-like or expressive structural qualities remain latent – structure cannot be read."[Charleson, Andrew *Structure As Architecture: A Source Book For Architects And Structural Engineers*. Architectural Press, 2005.]

03. "In the context of this chapter, shaping a wall in plan presents opportunities for architectural enrichment, as illustrated at the Mönchengladbach Museum. Highly regarded for the qualities of its interior spaces and urban setting, an exterior gallery wall undulates (Fig. 4. 10). The sinuous wall imbues one gallery interior with special character and outside, the wall’s serpentine geometry appears as a natural extension of the curvilinear paths and brick walls that lead up the hillside to the museum."[Charleson, Andrew *Structure As Architecture: A Source Book For Architects And Structural Engineers*. Architectural Press, 2005.]

04. "PAGE 20 WOVEN WALL The ur-wall is not, according to  19th century architectural theorist  Gottfried Semper, a mud or stone  line of enormous and reassuring  heft, but an artful, woven partition.  Hanging loosely, perhaps flapping,  the woven screen generates-   and, crucially, symbolizes -   the division and organization of  activities within the primitive dwelling. The woven "wall" is an enabler  of civilization; the thick structural  wall merely a defender of it. "[INPUT: wall.pdf]

05. "The museum was designed to show to best advantage its pictures—not itself. Goodwin and Stone entice visitors in with, instead of the usual awesome flight of steps followed by a puzzling series of closets for pictures, a glimpse of a garden behind an all-glass wall, and then surround them with art before they know it. Moreover, this pioneering building—fortified by a series of electrifying exhibitions—was to make “Modern” architecture (and art, design, and photography) acceptable, even fashionable."[Smith, George Everard Kidder *Source Book of American Architecture: 500 Notable Buildings from the 10th Century to the Present*. Princeton Architectural Press, 1997.]

06. "Moreover, some hold that he considered the building far more important than the art. Granted the Guggenheim’s walls—and the original lighting—are not always cooperative, the museum itself is so exciting as a sculptured space that people come to experience the building and find themselves captured by the art—art that in many cases the museum has indeed glorified."[Smith, George Everard Kidder *Source Book of American Architecture: 500 Notable Buildings from the 10th Century to the Present*. Princeton Architectural Press, 1997.]

07. "The signiﬁcance of a wall’s threshold qualities notwithstanding, a wall is empirically also a screen, or cover; a function of particular importance to medieval and premodern urban Arab-Muslim culture, with its traditional enclaustration and veiling of women."[O'Meara, Simon *Space and Muslim Urban Life: At the Limits of the Labyrinth of Fez (Culture and Civilization in the Middle East)*. 2007.]

08. "to reduce architectural form to blank planes forced into bizarre forms and made of ambiguous materials of an indeterminate nature. Instead, collaborative designers fully participate in the entire design process, embellishing and contextualizing surfaces with integrated images that communicate visually with the observer. Of course, such permanent art—like all public art— must attempt to serve both present and future users."[Yglesias, Caren *The Innovative Use of Materials in Architecture and Landscape Architecture: History, Theory and Performance*. McFarland, 2014.]

09. "The building as a work of art therefore is more than a physical phenomenon; it embodies the artistic concept which is non-physical (fenomeno-che-fenomeno-non-è). Although the material of the building ages with time, its artistic concept is perceived in human consciousness, and this can only take place in the present. Therefore, Brandi concludes, a work of art is always in the present."[Jokilehto, Jukka *History of Architectural Conservation*. Butterworth-Heinemann, 2002.]

10. "Brandi states that the task of art history is to explore – within temporal succession – the Figure 8. 12 Wall decoration in Shah-i-Zindeh, the monumental cemetery of Samarkand. The tesserae of a mosaic form a work of art together and not separately. Repairs have been made in ‘neutral’ forms, respecting the original ‘extra-temporal’, inner dimension of time and rhythm."[Jokilehto, Jukka *History of Architectural Conservation*. Butterworth-Heinemann, 2002.]

11. "wall 2001 As thin as possible: fantasy of the  two-dimensional wall, sketched in 3D by  SANAA for the Kunstlinie Almere,  Netherlands. PAGE 3 WALL The meaning of the wall is just as diverse as the uses of vertical surface can be, but there are at least two essential  functions: providing structure and dividing space. The two can be separated, and thus the category of 'wall' divides into  two: the bearing wall, separating roof from ground; and the partition wall, organizing movement within the resulting  container. The former, it would seem, is as stable as the human need for shelter; the latter as changeable as our forms  of sociability. "[INPUT: wall.pdf]

12. "Clearly it facilitates simultaneous construction by a number of separate gangs-of considerable significance in urgent work. Also a long unstayed wall is inherently unstable and modern building regulations always limit the ac- fighting plaiform crenellation machicouli wall-walk EB curtains unbroken trace DESIGN numerous gates later curtains broken trace idented trace salients & recesses ceptable length in terms of the breadth (they certainly would not restrict the length of a 8m broad brick wall!)."[Wright, G.R.H. *Ancient Building in South Syria and Palestine*. Leiden: Brill, 1985.]

13. "Hallway and special designed wall 3. Dusk view of façade 4."[Yu, Jasmine *Museum Display Design*. Design Media Publishing Limited, 2012.]

14. "Functional Analysis of the ‘Wavy’ Enclosure Wall."[Wright, G.R.H. *Ancient Building Technology, Volume 3: Construction (2 vols.)*. Brill, 2009.]

15. "Take the most important festivity, to mention but one, the Fête de la Fédération at Champs de Mars (14 July 1790). Thus, for lack of major construction projects, monumental art became involved in perpetuating a grand idea. It was also an opportunity for art to be expressed differently. Clearly decorative, instant and temporary architecture, like the projects in question (festivals, public ceremonies), require delicate tact and taste."[Bayard, Émile *The ABC of styles*. Parkstone Press, 2012.]

16. "Although the work of Tiffany and his contemporaries passed from favor for a brief period, these examples of the decorative arts are avidly collected and greatly prized today. Art Nouveau design accomplished what long hoped for. It many nineteenth-century critics had elevated the decorative arts to a position of importance previ- arts. Pieces with sterling-silver mounts by Tiffany and other eminent manufacturers caused both social and art critics to discuss enthusiastically such everyday objects as hand mirrors and candlesticks."[Bishop, Robert, and Patricia Coblentz *The World of Antiques, Art, and Architecture in Victorian America*. Dutton Adult, 1979.]

17. "In similar fashion, the western Pillar (C17:13) is linked to west Wall 8012 by a connecting unit (C17:19). The result is a wall (W8015) that consists of four openings allowing for air and light to circulate from the central hall. The south face of the two units of Wall 8015 form a straight line and did not contain recesses as on the north face in Central Hall 804 (see above)."[Daviau, P. M. Michele, Paul-Eugene Dion, Ronald G. V. Hancock, David Hemsworth, Margaret A. Judd, Ryan Defonzo, and Douglas W. Schnurrenberger *Excavations at Tall Jawa, Jordan, Volume 1: The Iron Age Town*. Brill Academic Publishers, 2003.]

18. "Choisy is even more explicit on this question. According to a passage of his 1883 Art de Bâtir chez les Byzantins (The Art of Building of the Byzantines), part of what 2 Antoine Picon 077 Chapter 2 Ornament and Subjectivity makes Greek and Byzantine art attractive lies in the latitude left to the craftsmen to express themselves."[Picon, Antoine *Ornament : the politics of architecture and subjectivity*. Wiley, 2013.]

19. "In the early nineteenth century, J. C. Loudon devised what he called the ﬁrst principle of landscape design: a theory of recognition of art. His concern was that landscape design could not simply be nature improved or in imitation of the naturally occurring. The design had to be recognizable as art. Loudon argued for three guides for design that would allow it to offer what art can offer—that is, to stir the emotions and the mind."[Yglesias, Caren *The Innovative Use of Materials in Architecture and Landscape Architecture: History, Theory and Performance*. McFarland, 2014.]

20. "On London Wall it streams along the street as a huge, gentle wave with delicately detailed aluminium windows that curve around the corner and punctuate the wall of Lussac limestone cladding. On entry into the grand lobby and between deals the building users can gaze upon expensive art work (including work by Anish Kapoor, Rachel Whiteread and James Rosenquist, etc. )"[Allinson, Kenneth *London's Contemporary Architecture, Fourth Edition: An Explorer's Guide*. 4th ed. Architectural Press, 2006.]

21. "The cellular nature of the plan yielded a series of Kunstkabinette, a spatial paradigm not unprecedented for this architect when faced with the challenge of housing an art collection. The early public exhibitions in Haus Lange reenacted the original relationship between art and architecture. In this relationship, the architecture assumed a background character and also a quality of incompleteness, as if the art—or more generally, habitation— was anticipated by the architecture and made whole by it."[Kleinman, Kent, and Leslie Van Duzer *Mies van der Rohe's Krefeld Villas*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2005.]

22. "However when the wall is a very thick one (e. g. a city wall) standing damp has a noxious result. The drying out process is mainly at the faces leaving the core damp. Thus the wall consists ofvirtually two different materials each with different physical properties and the faces tend to scale away at a plane of cleavage, perhaps 30-socms in from the surface."[Wright, G.R.H. *Ancient Building in South Syria and Palestine*. Leiden: Brill, 1985.]

23. "Occasionally people theorise about it, maybe saying something like, ‘I think it is a learned response; young children don’t do it’. Threshold Uncertainty I once went to an art exhibition (in Dundee Contemporary Arts) and experienced a powerful and subtle work. In a small room off the main gallery there was a photograph framed on the wall near one corner."[Unwin, Simon *Doorway*. Routledge, 2008.]

24. "This definition not only opens the way to many art histories, it also distances the history of art in general from the ingrained textual centrism that perpetuates an obsession with elite cultures and ensures the continued parochialism and derivativeness of art history's interpretative concerns" (p. 591). I owe this reference to Prof. S. Levine. Page 99 23."[Ridgway, Brunilde S. *Prayers in Stone: Greek Architectural Sculpture (c. 600-100 B.C.E.)*. University of California Press, 1999.]

25. "This wall is the only transverse interior wall that has no central support from a perpendicular intermediate wall and most clearly demonstrates the out-of-plane behavior of slender adobe walls. The north wall of Room 10 has a more complex pattern of cracks, complicated by the central support provided by the intermediate wall between Rooms 11 and 12. This wall is also partially covered by plywood and temporary bracing, which obscured observation."[Tolles, E. Leroy, Frederick A. Webster, Anthony Crosby, and Edna E. Kimbro *Survey of Damage to Historic Adobe Buildings after the January 1994 Northridge Earthquake  (GCI Scientific Program Report)*. Getty Publications, 1996.]