Created: 2026-01-01 16:56:08
Origin: suggested
Selected: In creative texts, the digital poet often aims to combine fragments of text and iconic elements so as to create a textual work situated at the intersection of poem and image. This hybridization of text with the visual is characteristic not only of emerging literary production, but also of many information sites, in which the formatting of textual data draws extensively on the resources of graphic design. Because of the ease with which computers can process digital data, images are winning a legitimate place in communication.[Vandendorpe, Christian *From Papyrus to Hypertext*. Urbana: University of Illinois Press, 2009.]

--- Context List ---
01. "WRITING IMAGES AND PICTURING TEXT [[HMARK-0]] AN ARCHITECTONIC PLAYGROUND BETWEEN DIGITAL MULTIMODALITIES [[HMARK-1]] 1 PREFACE[[HMARK-2]] 1 The PhD thesis presented here revolves around the process of writing it itself. Not because the writing simply reports three years of research, but because the culmination of research is the process of writing this. To clarify, the particularly interest is in the writing as an operation. From an architectural research perspective, this parallels an interest in designing as a mode of thinking rather than in the object alone."[INPUT: content_small.pdf]

02. "As networked and programmable machines aggregate video, film, sound, and graphics into a single platform, the interplay between text and graphics expands exponentially, as it does in OR. In sum, digital-inscription media and the de-differentiation they are presently undergoing can be erased from OR precisely because they are omnipresent in its writing practices. The paradigmatic variations, along with mirror symmetries, function as the visible linguistic technologies made possible by digital technologies of inscription; nowhere present within the narrative diegesis, digital technologies are everywhere apparent when we consider the writing-down system as a whole."[Hayles, N. Katherine *How We Think: Digital Media and Contemporary Technogenesis*. University Of Chicago Press, 2012.]

03. "In creative texts, the digital poet often aims to combine fragments of text and iconic elements so as to create a textual work situated at the intersection of poem and image. This hybridization of text with the visual is characteristic not only of emerging literary production, but also of many information sites, in which the formatting of textual data draws extensively on the resources of graphic design. Because of the ease with which computers can process digital data, images are winning a legitimate place in communication."[Vandendorpe, Christian *From Papyrus to Hypertext*. Urbana: University of Illinois Press, 2009.]

04. "This book, therefore, attempts to answer Worsham’s call by uniting image and emotions through non-discursive rhetoric. In order to write the “nuance of the impossible,” as Worsham put it, the ﬁrst thing we must do is allow the rhetorical image to become the center of our pedagogical practice. Eloquent Images, an anthology edited by Mary Hocks and Michelle Kendrick dedicated to the importance of image to writing, weaves together image, new media, and the importance of “design practice” in this way: [A]s each chapter in this volume outlines speciﬁc forms of design and practice, it delineates part of that complex stratiﬁcation of functioning that constitutes new media’s “play” in our digital machines."[Murray, Joddy *Non-discursive Rhetoric: Image and Affect in Multimodal Composition*. 2009.]

05. "110 14. Tschumi, B. (1976) Advertisements for Architecture. Available at: https://www. tschumi. com/projects/19 (Accessed: 19 May 2025). 15. Carpo, M. (2011) The alphabet and the algorithm. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press (Writing architecture). p. 117 111 2. 3 THE MULTIMODAL GAP[[HMARK-29]] image — conceptual, reaching, pact, figurine, grasp, plaster  Michel Foucault’s reading of Magritte’s This is Not a Pipe offers a historical and philosophical grounding for the persistent separation of image and text; a separation that contemporary machine learning attempts to bridge."[INPUT: content_small.pdf]

06. "See knowledge representation; representation digital media: and crisis in aesthetic discussions, 142; critical studies in, xvi; formalist assumptions underlying authority of, 134–35; generative materiality of, 130; low stability in relation of inscription to material, 148; and new ways to think about traditional work, 130; ontological properties of, 177; power ascribed to, 189; and the status of writing, 129 digital photography, 136 digital processing: and algorithms, 23; code storage as deﬁning condition of, 134; and digital humanities, 23; iterative aspects of, 216n1 digital projects, design of as rhetorical instrument, 131 digital surrogates, 23 digital technology: allows for continual transformation of artifacts, 173; functions accommodated more readily than print media, 174; identity of, 191 digital texts, 8; based on material codes, 146, 147; and content modeling, 112, 113; as ﬁeld of potentialities, 20, 77; illusion of immateriality, 145, 147, 155; material properties modeled in markup and metadata, 165; meaning inﬂected by graphical and visual properties, 152; n-dimensionality, 20–21; “non-self-identicality” of, 71, 78, 95, 120, 132; semantic content of, 8 disambiguation, 102 discourse analysis, 9, 41 discourse ﬁeld, 28 discursive temporality, 44 “dividing instant,” 38, 50 document type deﬁnition (DTD), 35, 40, 112, 116, 153 “double-parallax,” 120 Dublin Core Metadata Initiative, 8 Duchamp, Marcel, 180, 193 Duguid, Paul, 173 eBay, xvi e-books, 16; claims to overcome drawbacks of traditional books, 168; conceptual obstacles to, 167; designs Index of graphical interfaces for, 167; idea of “the book” guiding design of, 167–69, 174; limitations, 165–66 eikon/likeness, 137 “electric language,” 8, 145 electronic environments."[Drucker, Johanna *SpecLab: Digital Aesthetics and Projects in Speculative Computing*. 2009.]

07. "I would go further and suggest that nineteenth-century illustration and contemporary digital cultures are, in fact, part of the same historical trajectory, their constant reproduction and remediation stimulated by new possibilities for juxtaposing 10 J. THOMAS word and image, and this juxtaposition takes place in spite of Friedrich Kittler’s assertion that ‘computers … are not designed for image-processing at all’. 27 Computers might not be designed for image processing, but perhaps it is this very fact that has spurred on attempts to bring word and image together in productive, and explicitly ‘illustrative’, ways."[(auth.), Julia Thomas *Nineteenth-Century Illustration and the Digital: Studies in Word and Image*. Palgrave Macmillan, 2017.]

08. "The next chapter offers a speciﬁc composing model that integrates theories of image and imagination, language, consciousness, and will in such a way that is applicable to writing instruction and writing theory. Consciousness and will are important to writing theory because they provide the context in which our emotions, imagination, and language create text. In moving toward a writing theory comprehensive enough to handle multimodal texts of all kinds, we must ﬁrst imagine the intricacies and inner-relationships between image, consciousness, and will."[Murray, Joddy *Non-discursive Rhetoric: Image and Affect in Multimodal Composition*. 2009.]

09. "A survey of Hay’s environment shows text becoming hypertext, the page becoming the screen and the demand for the section coming into and through a cone of information. With this drawing, layers of hypertextual script, both word and image, are penetrated resulting in a hypersectional perspective existing between the digital and the analogue."[Davies, Jo, and Leo Duff *Drawing, the process*. Bristol, UK; Portland, OR: Intellect, 2005.]

10. "© 2012 John Wiley & Sons Ltd. 14 The Digital Turn in Architecture 1992–2012 Architecture After the Age of Printing (1992) Peter Eisenman These two essays by Peter Eisenman inaugurate digital discourse in architecture in the 1990s, and highlight the continuity between Deconstructivism and the first age of digital design. The contrast between the photograph and the telefax, cited in both essays, refers less to image-making than to the different nature of mechanical and digital reproducibility: unlike mechanical copies, which once printed are fixed and stable, digital images derive from number-based notations, or files, that can morph and change all the time."[Carpo, Mario *The digital turn in architecture 1990-2010*. Chichester: Wiley, 2012.]

11. "Furthermore, bodies in/as texts/contexts take on additional layers in digital domains as meanings shift through virtual proximity among avatars, arrangement of layouts, and movement across screens and networks (Jones 2005). New Literacy Studies (Gee 1996; Street 1995) recognize play as embodied ways of producing and wielding texts. Playing a text (Mackey 2007) is not a stance outside a text but embodies it from within the text itself. Importantly, play also creates 568 B. L. Samuelson and K. E. Wohlwend and upholds a collaboratively pretend context with others."[(eds.), Peter Pericles Trifonas *International Handbook of Semiotics*. Springer Netherlands, 2015.]

12. "The modern era defined image and writing—to come back to two of the basic media of Western culture—as specific monomedia: characteristic for the image, and not only in modern art history, is its “flatness” (Clement Greenberg), the two-dimensionality of a painted canvas—applied to drawings as well as photographs—that has been reflected, subverted, and transformed in modern art and modern technologies. Writing, or more precisely text, was considered even more abstract in a way: to be able to read a text, decode the symbols as words, sentences, speech, the graphic symbols of the alphabet have to remain “invisible”—the reader has to abstract their concrete visible form. 12 Jacques Derrida turned the attention of philosophy to writing as its own tool—a medium in terms of mediality: it is significant that we use writing and how we use it, but in a different way than the representational relation (signifier/signified) that writing or text suggests."[Herzogenrath, Bernd *Travels in Intermediality: ReBlurring the Boundaries*. Dartmouth, 2012.]

13. "A digital viewing in which multiple illustrations can be seen together entails a ‘looking across’ or ‘scanning’ of images that stands as the visual equivalent of what Andrew Piper has termed ‘roaming’. 1 According to Piper, digital texts transgress the horizontal limitations of the page, creating a model where ‘the textual surface is roamable rather than turnable’ and where the ‘adjacency’ of text becomes paramount. 2 Likewise, 5 TAILPIECE 97 the digital illustration archive creates an environment that contravenes the analogue limitations of the genre and allows illustrations from different pages or publications to be displayed alongside each other."[(auth.), Julia Thomas *Nineteenth-Century Illustration and the Digital: Studies in Word and Image*. Palgrave Macmillan, 2017.]

14. "In a civilization marked by the increasing prominence of the visual, we can expect a change in this hierarchical relationship of text to image. It is far from certain that coming generations dealing with mixed environments will read the text first, as we so often tend to do. On the contrary, feedback loops will proliferate between text and image, and there will be more influence between them, with the spectacularization of the text fragment and the textualization of the visual. Michel Butor, who was interested in painting and in the increasing prominence of the image in our environment, observed that the most sober newspapers have had to resign themselves to providing space for images. He concluded: “We see before us a new age of text. The text has now been freed from certain constraints, as much as the codex was in rela- tion to the volumen. We are truly at the dawn of a new age of humanity. ” The new culture of hypermedia has given rise to even more interaction between text and image."[Vandendorpe, Christian *From Papyrus to Hypertext*. Urbana: University of Illinois Press, 2009.]

15. "For Derrida, to write a contribution to architecture requires a not quite writing, an outside of writing proper, a “writing. ” Not so for letters. Derrida is comfortable with “real” writing, having rehabilitated writing from its exclusion, its metaphysical exteriorization and repression vis-a`-vis speech. This he was able to do by putting forward a concept of arche´-writing—that is, a generalized writing anterior to speech—in large part based on such notions as trace and diffe´rance."[Hays, K. Michael *Architecture Theory since 1968*. The MIT Press, 1998.]

16. "Notes on Digital Nesting (A Poetics of Evolutionary Form) This was produced as an invitation to write ‘on’ Gaston Bachelard’s Poetics of Space, which demanded reﬂection about a thinker outside of the philosophical lineage that has typically framed our work; but as a text ‘on’ creative imagination, I found it both illuminating and refreshing, particularly as a means of framing digital praxis. The essay demands that we look to articulate the very manner of creative practice in a digital medium, offering a perspective based on both the Poetics and John Frazer’s Evolutionary Architecture."[Goulthorpe, Mark *The Possibility of (an) Architecture: Selected Essays by Mark Goulthorpe dECOi*. 2008.]

17. "Baldry, A. P. and Thibault, P. (forthcoming) Multimodal Transcription and Text. London: Equinox. Barthes, R. (1977) Rhetoric of the image. In R. Barthes (S. Heath, ed. and trans. ), Image-Music-Text. London: Fontana, 32-51. Bohle, R. (1990) Publication Design for Editors. New Jersey: Prentice-Hall. Bordwell, D. and Thompson, K. (1997) Film Art: An Introduction. New York: McGraw-Hill."[O'Halloran, Kay L. *Multimodal Discourse Analysis: Systemic Functional Perspectives (Open Linguistics)*. 2004.]

18. "What happens to writing, to “script,” when it takes the form of a hypertext and of programming “languages”?What does digitization mean to the image as a medium—in the context of multidimensional computer models or digital photography?10 And of course changes in contemporary digital media change media concepts underlying historical research, such as the relations between writing, calculation, and image for example. 11 If the computer is understood as a “giant hypertext” (Manuel Castells), intermediality is reduced to intertextuality—to the framework of the text, to relations in the mode of representation, signifier/signified."[Herzogenrath, Bernd *Travels in Intermediality: ReBlurring the Boundaries*. Dartmouth, 2012.]

19. "While new routes and entry points are provided, the resources and experiences that the teacher draws on are different than if she were to start this discussion with a written or oral text – a shift in authority, a connection with a variety of experiences and knowledge outside of the cannon – new ways into the play. The ways in which imagery and writing appear in the English classroom has changed considerably over the past decade (Jewitt, Bezemer and Kress 2011). Through investigation of the relationship between image, writing, action and layout they show that image and layout are increasingly meshed in the construction of content."[Machin, David *Visual Communication*. 2017.]

20. "T. A. Sebeok, 350–77 (New York: Wiley, 1960); Barthes, Image/Music/Text; Eco, Theory of Semiotics; Bal, Looking In; and Bryson, Holly, and Moxey, Visual Culture. 3. 1 1. This piece took many forms: “Digital Ontologies: The Ideality of Form” (Digital Arts Conference, 1999), “Ontology of the Digital Image” (Wesleyan University, 1997), “Theoretical Informational Aesthetics” (Cal Arts, 1998), and various versions of “Code Storage” (keynote, Mixed Messages Conference, University of North Carolina, 1997; New York University, 1998)."[Drucker, Johanna *SpecLab: Digital Aesthetics and Projects in Speculative Computing*. 2009.]

21. "The relationships between text and image were defined by R. Barthes as either “anchorage” or “relay” (1977: 39). In Anchorage words elucidate pictures. As Van Leeuwen puts it, “the text directs the reader through the signifieds of the image, causing the viewer to avoid some and receive others,” and “remote-controls him towards the meaning chosen in advance” (Van Leeuwen 2005: 229). In relay “text and image stand in complementary relationship and are both fragments of a more general syntagm to which each contributes its own distinct information” (Van Leeuwen 2005: 229)."[Machin, David *Visual Communication*. 2017.]

22. "to unfamiliar, uninhabitable spatiality, 117 account for, let alone propitiate, such birthing. ‘Image’ is the name given to the digital surrational speciﬁcally challenging the aptitude of causal, linear modes of thought to 118 the digital surrational that could only be inhabited by a projection of imagination (‘Nests’, ‘Shells’, ‘Miniature’), to highly abstract spatial notions that require a fully projective imagination (‘Intimate Immensity’ and the ‘curved’ spatiality of ‘The Phenomenology of Roundness’)."[Goulthorpe, Mark *The Possibility of (an) Architecture: Selected Essays by Mark Goulthorpe dECOi*. 2008.]

23. "This perspective is in line with that adopted by the NEH Office of Digital Humanities (Bobley, Rhody, and Serventi, 2011), whose personnel were advised at the program’s birth to define the Digital Humanities as broadly as possible. For my purposes, the Digital Humanities include, among other kinds of projects, text encoding and analysis, digital editions of print works, historical research that recreates classical architecture in virtual reality formats such as Rome Reborn and The Theater of Pompey, archival and geospatial sites, and, since there is a vibrant conversation between scholarly and creative work in this field, electronic literature and digital art that draws on or remediates humanities traditions."[Hayles, N. Katherine *How We Think: Digital Media and Contemporary Technogenesis*. University Of Chicago Press, 2012.]

24. "He adapts Kress and van Leeuwen’s compositional model to explore theme development in a children’s book text alongside compositional features of the accompanying images (115ff. ). Text and image are not co-composed in his examples, however, and he does not attempt to map the structuring of the text to the organisation of the images, nor is he tracking items from image to image within the illustrated text. There is some cross-comparison between the thematisation of certain figures (their patterned recurrence in initial, theme position in the clauses) in the wording of the book he analyses, against the frequencies with which these figures appear in the illustrations (132ff."[Davies, Paul Fisher *Comics As Communication: A Functional Approach*. Palgrave Macmillan, 2019.]

25. "Students learnt about creating a hypertext and animations, making use of more visual resources available for conveying their messages. They used PowerPointTM in a more creative way than previously. Students in pairs also independently created paper-based multimodal texts about how the senses worked, with a written explanation and an image that illustrated the writing. The purpose of this task was to reinforce the learning of the written mode, due to the teachers concerns about the education system’s testing requirements, which includes students in year 3 and year 5 writing a text, not creating a multimodal text."[(eds.), Peter Pericles Trifonas *International Handbook of Semiotics*. Springer Netherlands, 2015.]