Created: 2025-12-23 19:02:17
Origin: suggested
Selected: The digiterati blithely dismiss such warnings and continue into the new perceptual shift toward multiple, windowed, virtual realities. Often these new worlds look suspiciously like typing. Like the scribal milieu that long dominated the first centurys output of print, the evolution of cyberspace is bound to give up its secrets and realize its potential only slowly to people so long ensconced in older media. Are new media leading to a shift in the ratio of the senses today?Quite possibly, but that shift may be of the same slow, unconscious sort that marked the changes that attended modernization in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries.[Rath, Richard Cullen *How Early America Sounded*. 2019.]

--- Context List ---
01. "The digiterati blithely dismiss such warnings and continue into the new perceptual shift toward multiple, windowed, virtual realities. Often these new worlds look suspiciously like typing. Like the scribal milieu that long dominated the first centurys output of print, the evolution of cyberspace is bound to give up its secrets and realize its potential only slowly to people so long ensconced in older media. Are new media leading to a shift in the ratio of the senses today?Quite possibly, but that shift may be of the same slow, unconscious sort that marked the changes that attended modernization in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries."[Rath, Richard Cullen *How Early America Sounded*. 2019.]

02. "After the inauguration, several shops along the width of one arcade had to be amalgamated. 34 A larger shop meant more space to display goods, both in the shop and behind the shop windows. As the design of the shop spaces shows, however, shopkeepers were still expected to need a workshop. This implies that the division of labour between retailing and production was not complete. Furthermore, even though shop space and apartments were mostly rented out separately, many of the shopkeepers still had their homes above their shops. 35 Despite these signs of the resilience of more traditional practices, the arcade did constitute something of a novelty, both in its architecture and in the culture that came into being within it."[Furnée, Jan Hein, and Clé Lesger (eds.) *The Landscape of Consumption: Shopping Streets and Cultures in Western Europe, 1600–1900*. Palgrave Macmillan UK, 2014.]

03. "It is clear from the archives of building applications in Brussels that retailers were investing all century long in improving the appearance of both their shop windows and their shop frontages. Advances in technology created new possibilities for increasingly impressive shop windows and spectacular window displays. 19 The archives of building plans at the Brussels City Archives are filled with building applications for altering shop windows and shop fronts and in travel guides there is talk of ‘élégantes vitrines’. 20 The rise of the art of window dressing and the deployment of architecture as an advertising strategy is usually associated with department stores."[Furnée, Jan Hein, and Clé Lesger (eds.) *The Landscape of Consumption: Shopping Streets and Cultures in Western Europe, 1600–1900*. Palgrave Macmillan UK, 2014.]

04. "One hastens to add that looking like a sleekly beautiful machine is for Corbusier a new way to look like architectural art: the famous slogan is after all a figure of speech, coming from a new aesthetic place but aesthetic nevertheless. This was not exactly Loos’s way of stating the specially qualified non-art case for architecture, but it is effectively something he in some sense stated first. That ‘Ornament and Crime’ always turns out to be more challenging than one expects, concerns the difficulty of breaking through conventional presuppositions about ornament as necessarily a refinement, to which even the Papuan-Maori analogue for the cultural ‘stragglers’ of modern times is subordinate."[Loos, Adolf *Ornament and Crime*. Penguin Books Ltd, 2019.]

05. "It is clear that new commercial concepts have to be adapted to the specific urban and retailing context in which they are built, if they are to be successful. As the accounts of both market halls and arcades have shown, retail innovations do not necessarily experience the same fate in every metropolis. The success of many of the Brussels arcades proved to be of a different nature compared to their Parisian counterparts. Instead of losing their function of easy passageways amidst a jumble of streets, the later nineteenth-century arcades in Brussels formed fashionable corridors between fashionable boulevard-style shopping streets."[Furnée, Jan Hein, and Clé Lesger (eds.) *The Landscape of Consumption: Shopping Streets and Cultures in Western Europe, 1600–1900*. Palgrave Macmillan UK, 2014.]

06. "Expositions can be seen as closely knit textures spread over time that reveal multiple perspectives for interpretation. They were intended to represent contingent versions of the global in local contexts and constituted, in the words of Georg Simmel, ‘momentary centers of world civilization’. 103 Eco had to concede that expositions must be seen as complex technologies and media of communication: ‘The exposition […] does not display goods, or if it does, it uses the goods as a means, as a pretext to present something else’, he stated: ‘And this something else is the exposition itself."[(auth.), Alexander C. T. Geppert *Fleeting Cities: Imperial Expositions in Fin-de-Siècle Europe*. Palgrave Macmillan UK, 2010.]

07. "I argue that interiority, as a concept of spatial organization, was created in a new way in Kano through the Islamic institution of female seclusion. 25 Hence, I discuss below how interiority expressed itself in the palace through language, architecture, and sociospatial practice."[Nast, Heidi J. *Concubines and Power: Five Hundred Years in a Northern Nigerian Palace*. Univ Of Minnesota Press, 2004.]

08. "The geographical methods deployed here produced invaluable new histor ical information, without which none of the hypotheses I have proposed here would be possible. Exploring the spatial organization of everyday palace life involved mining traditional sources for new kinds of empirical information, whether these be linguistic data, aerial photographs, archival photographs, the mapping of landscape details, or architectural analysis. In so doing, new empirical finds were made, including the large indigo dyeing yard, the "women's path" leading into the palace from the market, the sacred baobab tree and well outside the prejihadic king's quarters, the sixteenth-century eunuch colony, and so on."[Nast, Heidi J. *Concubines and Power: Five Hundred Years in a Northern Nigerian Palace*. Univ Of Minnesota Press, 2004.]

09. "Heyden (1838–1902), presented their study for a semi-permanent exhibition building in Berlin as part of the annual exhibition of the Academy of Arts (Figure 2. 3). The proposal was based on, and attempted to synthesize, exhibition models first developed in Paris 1867 (an ellipse with concentric and radial streets) and Vienna 1873 (a fishbone system with a central rotunda) in a new, semi-circular layout with ‘national streets’ and a monumental cupola building. Even if details remained to be discussed, the issue was clearly established as a matter for public debate."[(auth.), Alexander C. T. Geppert *Fleeting Cities: Imperial Expositions in Fin-de-Siècle Europe*. Palgrave Macmillan UK, 2010.]

10. "Not only was the exposition modern, but modernity itself was on display: the continuous attempts to create an illusionary unity, a fictitious, transitory and largely self-contained realm in which the audience could immerse itself on each such occasion, was reflexively considered ‘modern’. In its attempt to assemble and concentrate ‘the world’ in one place, the Berlin trade exhibition served as a laboratory for scrutinizing the fundamental characteristics and contradictions inherent in modern culture."[(auth.), Alexander C. T. Geppert *Fleeting Cities: Imperial Expositions in Fin-de-Siècle Europe*. Palgrave Macmillan UK, 2010.]

11. "Pre-modern communities could not grow without introducing some form of visible language that could extend the realm of the face-to-face. This notion of extension is key to distinguishing “civil” from “savage” -- or “civilized” from “primitive. ” Rendering language visible -- first in writing, then in print -- is posited as what allowed for the extension of encounters beyond face-to-face exchange. Writing and print supposedly removed the necessity for the physical presence of an author -- or authority -- as a criterion for representation to take place."[Rath, Richard Cullen *How Early America Sounded*. 2019.]

12. "Computermediated interactions for instance are leading to the emergence of new genres which combine characteristics of speech and writing, conversational discourse and public discourse. More generally, traditional and familiar distinctions (such as speech versus writing) and categories (such as authorship) may be radically affected by the new technologies. In the context of 'virtual reality', so may representation. (2) Economic change is often discussed in terms of a late modern process of globalisation, the emergence of a global field of economic exchanges and flows at the expense of the national economies of modernity."[Coleman, Hywel, and Lynne Cameron (Editors) *Change and Language: Papers From the Annual Meeting of the British Association for Applied Linguistics Held At the University of Leeds, September 1994*. Mulitlingual Matters, Ltd., 1996.]

13. "On face-to-face communication and orality, see Walter J. Ong, Orality and Literacy: The Technologizing of the Word (London, 1982); Walter J. Ong, The Presence of the Word: Some Prolegomena for Cultural and Religious History (New York, 1970); and Erving Goffman, “On Face Work,” Psychiatry 18 (1955): 213-31. For extensions of the senses as markers of civilization, see McLuhan, Understanding Media. He adapts the idea from Edward T. Hall, The Silent Language (Greenwich, Conn. , 1959). [4] Simon Harward, A Discourse of Lightnings (New York, 1971), sig."[Rath, Richard Cullen *How Early America Sounded*. 2019.]

14. "122 body and machine Given this insistence on the rational anatomy of machines, it makes sense that Leonardo should attempt to design sets of those stock components that might be permutated to create any variety of new ‘body’. Previous engineers had concentrated on complete machines. Leonardo turned his attention to the ‘elements of machines’, components that potentially exercised their utility beyond that of a single context. A properly designed component, in which all the mathematics was right, should be of universal applicability."[Kemp, Martin *Leonardo: Revised Edition*. Revised. Oxford University Press, 2011.]

15. "The Bauhaus building was a serious exercise in developing new ways of constructing and articulating functional space based on carefully devised architectural theories. Another great modernist architect, the Frenchman Le Corbusier, entertained similar ideas. True Art Deco architecture is different. It can look modern in style but its decoration is a vital and essential part of it. This can be in the form of wrought iron, coloured leaded glass or colourful tiles and faience, but, whatever it is, it is the ornamentation that makes buildings really look Art Deco."[Lemmen, Hans *Art Deco Tiles*. Shire Publications, 2012.]