Created: 2025-12-19 14:17:41
Origin: suggested
Selected: Artifacts and representations carry different sorts of meanings simultaneously, and activities are caught up in many dour_ch06. fm Page 167 Thursday, May 24, 2001 11:43 AM Moving Toward Design 167 different tasks at the same time. This analytic perspective clearly has consequences for design, too. Systems or artifacts supporting embodied interaction need to be designed with an orientation toward the multiplicity of meanings that may be conveyed through them.[Dourish, Paul *Where the Action Is: The Foundations of Embodied Interaction (Bradford Books)*. The MIT Press, 2001.]

--- Context List ---
01. "For example, people  from different linguistic backgrounds typically require additional modes to support  effective communication in both learning environments and design teams. Thus,  whereas speech and image modes may be enough for some design team members  to communicate effectively, the inclusion of physical models and text may assist  others to gain a similar level of understanding."[INPUT: Lee et al. - 2024 - Multimodality in Architecture Collaboration, Technology and Education.pdf]

02. "This encourages a focus not on the capabilities of the technology per se, but on how that technology is embedded into a set of practices. Practices modulate systems as signals modulate media. In turn, this orientation toward practice opens up a different set of design approaches and opportunities for embodied interaction. Principle: Meaning arises on multiple levels. The analytic exploration of embodied interaction has repeatedly uncovered the way that objects carry meaning on multiple levels: as entities in their own right, as signifiers of social meaning, as elements in systems of practice, and so on."[Dourish, Paul *Where the Action Is: The Foundations of Embodied Interaction (Bradford Books)*. The MIT Press, 2001.]

03. "Before proceeding with an application of these ideas, let’s pause to frame the problem from a design perspective. Traditionally, the focus has been on describing design objects in terms of complementary relations between ‘function’ and ‘form’. This contrast has become a virtual cliché. However, design objects can be redefined in a way that parallels aesthetic objects such as paintings, poems, or films and this provides a means for elaborating the function/form distinction. Representational artworks or narratives have a subject matter that is equivalent to ‘function’ in design objects."[Schifferstein, Hendrik N.J., and Paul Hekkert (Eds.) *Product Experience*. 2013.]

04. "6 Multimodality and Architectural Technology 101 Midjourney, DALL-E 2, and Stable Diffusion) to create useful reference images for  design communication. Reference images are an essential mode of design communication between architects and non-experts (often clients or the public). The final  contribution introduced in this chapter, and presented in Part II of this book, proposes  a different type of collaboration between users and technology. Using genetic algorithms (GA), this research demonstrates that it is possible to treat a team of people  and technical systems as a type of collective intelligence (CI).  "[INPUT: Lee et al. - 2024 - Multimodality in Architecture Collaboration, Technology and Education.pdf]

05. "106 M. J. Ostwald Then, examples of text-to-image AI generation of bathroom and façade design are  presented. Finally, Lee et al. demonstrate the results of addition (a + b), subtraction  (a − b) and multiplication as generative constraints, producing, for example, design  images merging the styles of Antoni Gaudi and Frank Lloyd Wright. 6. 2. 4  Collective Intelligence for Building Energy Efficiency  Just as Ostwald et al. in Chap. 7 identify the need to resolve technical and social issues  to support effective design in IVEs, in Chap."[INPUT: Lee et al. - 2024 - Multimodality in Architecture Collaboration, Technology and Education.pdf]

06. "First, I will explore the context for design that embodied interaction provides. Then, I will set out a set of design principles for embodied interaction that explore different concerns for designers of interactive systems based on the embodied approach. A Common Framework The core of my argument throughout this book is that social and tangible computing share a common foundation in embodied interaction. That is the theoretical perspective. However, social and tangible computing have both given rise to a variety of design principles and prototypes."[Dourish, Paul *Where the Action Is: The Foundations of Embodied Interaction (Bradford Books)*. The MIT Press, 2001.]

07. "Artifacts and representations carry different sorts of meanings simultaneously, and activities are caught up in many dour_ch06. fm Page 167 Thursday, May 24, 2001 11:43 AM Moving Toward Design 167 different tasks at the same time. This analytic perspective clearly has consequences for design, too. Systems or artifacts supporting embodied interaction need to be designed with an orientation toward the multiplicity of meanings that may be conveyed through them."[Dourish, Paul *Where the Action Is: The Foundations of Embodied Interaction (Bradford Books)*. The MIT Press, 2001.]

08. "Work on model-based design has continued, without much success, in several areas. In user interface design several systems have been tried (see Abel et al. , 2004, for a review) that represent systems at the domain level, an abstract level of description and the physical level of different styles of widget such as scroll bars, windows, etc. One aim of the model-based approaches is to enable different versions of a system to be automatically generated from the same underlying model."[Benyon, David, Phil Turner, and Susan Turner *Designing Interactive Systems: People, Activities, Contexts, Technologies*. Addison Wesley, 2005.]

09. "We have also seen in this chapter how thinking about the qualities of different media and underlying metaphors can play a part. As we noted at the beginning of this chapter, one major envisionment technique remains – prototyping. This is discussed in the next chapter. 249 9069 INSD_10. QXD 250 17/9/04 1:35 pm Page 250 PART III • ACTIVITIES AND CONTEXTS OF INTERACTIVE SYSTEMS DESIGN ■ Considering Verplank’s design dimensions, the qualities of different media as suggested by McLuhan and underlying metaphors can help to stimulate design thinking."[Benyon, David, Phil Turner, and Susan Turner *Designing Interactive Systems: People, Activities, Contexts, Technologies*. Addison Wesley, 2005.]

10. "Functional syntheses based on the data and observations lead to abstract models that capture patterns, provide explanations, and lead to proposed alternative directions. For example, researchers may design observations to reveal how practitioners have adapted products to work for them in ways different from the designer’s model (design intent is represented in clockwise movements). Different explanations and characterizations of the basis for these adaptations then become seeds for exploring possible new design directions."[Schifferstein, Hendrik N.J., and Paul Hekkert (Eds.) *Product Experience*. 2013.]

11. "We finally settled on a seven-part structure because it offered the flexibility we felt was required in this rapidly changing discipline. Part I provides an essential guide to the issues of designing interactive systems – the main components of the subject, key features of the design process and how these are applied to different types of system. The unifying idea is encapsulated by the acronym PACT; designers should strive to achieve a harmony between the needs of different people who undertake activities in contexts using technologies."[Benyon, David, Phil Turner, and Susan Turner *Designing Interactive Systems: People, Activities, Contexts, Technologies*. Addison Wesley, 2005.]

12. "The partially integrated mode where non-geometric data can be changed locally without affecting the building model was easily understood and used with great confidence. Automatic interaction between different analyses in the fully integrated mode required considerable time to accept, especially when it crossed traditional boundaries between different design disciplines (level 3). Strategies, for instance in the choice of data sets used during a sequence of calculations, were not clear either from the hard copy or discussions."[(auth.), H. H. Rosenbrock, and Dr Paul Arthur (eds.) *CADCAM in Education and Training: Proceedings of the CAD ED 83 Conference*. Springer US, 1984.]

13. "This evaluation may identify unsatisfactory aspects of the design which will lead to a reformulating of the original problem into a further problem (P 2) which is then subjected to further testing, and so on. This conjecture and refutation model, together with the general systems model, provide the necessary background to consider the use of computer models in architectural education. 192 CADCAM IN EDUCATION AND TRAINING input . . . ou t f1U t Throughput ~ ~ feedback Architectural System t input variables . . . . . . context variables output variables Design Proposal . . . , ~ feedback Figure 1 General systems model and its adaptation to architectural design Traditional Process Propose and Test Process Briefing Briefing ~YSiS L n'1"" ] y s ."[(auth.), H. H. Rosenbrock, and Dr Paul Arthur (eds.) *CADCAM in Education and Training: Proceedings of the CAD ED 83 Conference*. Springer US, 1984.]

14. "Some general rules have recently been proposed by Clancey {Clancey 84), to model these processes. It thus seems that derivation tasks {Amarel 78) are well on the way to be solved at the conceptual and practical level. Things look a bit different at the derivation end of the intellectual spectrum. Design has grown into an area of major interest for the AI community (Mostow 84, Sigart 85), but few industrial design expert systems exist apart from Rl. a notable exception. And since this system uses the simple "Match" paradigm (McDermott 81), it is difficult to generalize from this example to the general cognitive constituents of the design tasks."[Sriram, D., and R. Adey *Applications of Artificial Intelligence in Engineering Problems: Proceedings of the 1st International Conference, Southampton University, U.K April 1986*. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 1986.]

15. "The complex and holistic nature of experiencing seems to require a broader view than any one academic discipline can support alone. However, different sciences have advantages in different stages of design. Research on emotion has focused more on evaluation of design, whereas social sciences are being adapted to the early, ‘fuzzy front end’ of design in order to understand people and products more holistically. Each discipline offers a different way of researching and defining experience, and a different set of methods and tools for the purpose."[Schifferstein, Hendrik N.J., and Paul Hekkert (Eds.) *Product Experience*. 2013.]