Created: 2025-11-14 22:17:51
Origin: suggested
Selected: Particularly for  architecture, machines like sophisticated drawing instruments— and, by extension, digital drawing devices—play unique roles as  transdisciplinary interfaces to mathematics itself. As new machines like ellipsographs, conchoidographs, and  planimeters began to encode the knowledge required to perform  certain architectural drawing procedures, an epistemological distinction between design knowledge and instrumental knowledge  emerged. On the one hand, we might define design knowledge as  the architect’s trained intuition of formal organization principles  such as the relationship of parts to a whole, the ranges of material effects, and the appropriate use of geometry. 6 Instrumental  knowledge is the narrower understanding of the procedures to  successfully manipulate a certain type of technique or technology, which would include the ability to operate an instrument, a  device, a machine, a process, or a software to intended effect. 7 In  addition to its expedient use to accomplish a particular design,  instrumental knowledge facilitates the creation of systems of  interrelated technologies to systematically realize design agendas.[INPUT: AndrewWitt-Formulations.pdf]

--- Context List ---
01. "Particularly for  architecture, machines like sophisticated drawing instruments— and, by extension, digital drawing devices—play unique roles as  transdisciplinary interfaces to mathematics itself. As new machines like ellipsographs, conchoidographs, and  planimeters began to encode the knowledge required to perform  certain architectural drawing procedures, an epistemological distinction between design knowledge and instrumental knowledge  emerged. On the one hand, we might define design knowledge as  the architect’s trained intuition of formal organization principles  such as the relationship of parts to a whole, the ranges of material effects, and the appropriate use of geometry. 6 Instrumental  knowledge is the narrower understanding of the procedures to  successfully manipulate a certain type of technique or technology, which would include the ability to operate an instrument, a  device, a machine, a process, or a software to intended effect. 7 In  addition to its expedient use to accomplish a particular design,  instrumental knowledge facilitates the creation of systems of  interrelated technologies to systematically realize design agendas."[INPUT: AndrewWitt-Formulations.pdf]

02. "Perhaps this is  due to a mistrust of black-boxed mechanical, electrical, computational, or conceptual operations of which the architect cannot  have complete understanding, or simply an assumption that the  culture of architecture resides elsewhere. Knowledge that is instrumentally encoded actually represents a radical new kind of collective cultural memory, a vast  cabinet of new disciplinary practices. With it, design practices  can be made modular and accessible through tools: they can  be abstracted, encoded, trusted, mechanically or electronically  represented, and propagated."[INPUT: AndrewWitt-Formulations.pdf]

03. "BIBLIOGRAPHY [1] R. Barro. Determinants of democracy. Journal of Political Economy, 107: 158–83, 1999. [2] D. E. Berlyne. Exploratory and epistemic behaviour. In S. Koch (ed. ),A Study of a Science II, McGraw-Hill, New York 1963 [1962]. [3] D. E. Berlyne. Aesthetic and psychobiology. Appleton-Century-Croft, New York 1971. [4] M. Bianchi. Collecting as a paradigm of consumption. Journal of Cultural Economics, 21: 275–289, 1997. [5] M. Bianchi. Novelty, preferences, and fashion: when goods are unsettling."[D'Agostino, Marcello (eds.) *New essays in logic and philosophy of science*. London: College Publivations, 2010.]

04. "Nongraphic symbolic encodings  in mathematical functions seemed ascendant, as new realities  required new representations equal to those realities. If new dimensions shook confidence in old systems of  both drawing and measurement, in some ways architecture was  a salutatory discipline to the possibility of higher-dimensional  representation. Architecture was subject to a range of invisible  forces of dynamic operation and evaluation that were not well  represented by drawings alone."[INPUT: AndrewWitt-Formulations.pdf]

05. "More vague criteria (fig. 5) are surely a wiser choice for understanding new types of bird. But a process of readjustment is necessary, determined by the new bird that has appeared (fig. 6). Kuhn emphasizes this essential plasticity in the practice of science. This process isn't limited only to physics; it is present in all the sciences and, more generally, in all representations that are candidates for scientific validation, be they intellectual intuitions, or artistic creations, illuminating, moving, or entertaining."[(auth.), Nicolas Bouleau *Risk and Meaning: Adversaries in Art, Science and Philosophy*. Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg, 2011.]

06. "Gadamer, H. -G. 1975. Truth and Method. New York: Seabury Press. Gardin, J. -C. 1973. ‘Document Analysis and Linguistic Theory. ’ Journal of Documentation 29 (2): 137–68. Gardner, H. 1985. The Mind’s New Science: A History of the Cognitive Revolution. New York: Basic Books. Gibbons, M. , C. Limoges, H. Nowotny, S. Schwartzman, P. Scott, and M. Trow. 1994. The New Production of Knowledge. The Dynamics of Science and Research in Contemporary Societies."[Brier, Soren *Cybersemiotics: Why Information Is Not Enough!*. 2nd. University of Toronto Press, 2008.]

07. "In comparison, the enterprises that underlie mainstream entertainments guarantee their own growth and dominance through participation in a ‘‘process of creative destruction’’ (Schumpeter, 1950). Joseph Schumpeter held ‘‘that in dealing with [market] capitalism we are dealing with an evolutionary process . . . [that] not only never is, but never can be stationary. ’’ In a ‘‘perennial gale of creative destruction, a capitalist enterprise . . . incessantly revolutionizes the economic structure from within, incessantly destroying the old one, incessantly creating a new one. ’’ In a viable popular music enterprise, the constant aim is to create new sounds through the application of new technology and a constant hybridization process."[Komara, Edward *Encyclopedia of the Blues*. New York: Routledge, 2005.]

08. "The interesting points then become the periods where one episode stops and another one starts. This would namely imply a shift of model in a model-based reasoning perspective. Following our earlier arguments, these moments might thus be considered as the points where abductive leaps of interpretation are made, resulting in new ideas, new models, new understandings. 2. 4 The Place of Analogy Of course, a leap of interpretation is never randomly made. Also in the linkograph representation, links are available that span two or more episodes (cross-episode links)."[Magnani, Lorenzo *Model-based reasoning in science and technology : theoretical and cognitive issues*. Springer, 2013.]

09. "However, in addition, the various operators and control strategies permit the creation of new objects, for example new mutations in SKB, and (ultimately) additions or changes to the basic eKB and PKB. 39 Thus variation is represented in a complex manner, part explicitly in terms of prototype frames for both structures and processes, and part procedurally in terms of potential modifications in the system. Significantly, there are two ways in which GENSIM and HYPGENE do not take new approaches to reasoning and representation."[Schaffner, Kenneth F. *Discovery and Explanation in Biology and Medicine (Science and Its Conceptual Foundations Series)*. University Of Chicago Press, 1994.]

10. "In many respects, we stand at the threshold of a new Enlightenment. The earlier Enlightenment’s definition of rationality and science has carried our civilization far, but it is now showing signs that it is based on foundations too narrow to meet the needs of a new global knowledge society. In order to survive the future that awaits us, we need to make the leap to a new level of knowledge and understanding of knowledge. Here I have been especially inspired by Luhmann’s and Peirce’s work with new transdisciplinary conceptual frameworks."[Brier, Soren *Cybersemiotics: Why Information Is Not Enough!*. 2nd. University of Toronto Press, 2008.]

11. "Arithmetic itself can then become the source for further extensions to new target domains. “Grounding metaphors” according to Lakoff and Núñez are linked directly to sensorimotor experience (as in the examples), and these are then the source for further conceptual metaphors. Turner [48] has argued that “conceptual integration,” the “blending” of disparate conceptual spaces is a basic cognitive operation that underlies the emergence of new meaning."[Magnani, Lorenzo *Model-based reasoning in science and technology : theoretical and cognitive issues*. Springer, 2013.]

12. "Basic Books, New York (1999) 31. Lakoff, G. , Núñez, R. E. : Where Mathematics Comes From: How the Embodied Mind Brings Mathematics into Being. Basic Books, New York (2000) 32. Larkin, J. H. , McDermott, J. , Simon, D. P. , Simon, H. A. : Models of competence in solving physics problems. Cogn. Sci. 4, 317–345 (1980)CrossRef 33. Magnani, L. : Abduction, Reason, and Science: Processes of Discovery and Explanation. Kluwer Academic/Plenum Publishers, New York (2001)CrossRef 34. Maxwell, J. C. (undated, c. 1870/1882). To the chief musician upon Nabla."[Magnani, Lorenzo *Model-based reasoning in science and technology : theoretical and cognitive issues*. Springer, 2013.]

13. " Alberto Peruzzi Kugler, P. N. & Turvey, M. T. (1987). Information, Natural Law and the Self-assembly of Rhythmic Movement: Theoretical and Experimental Investigations. Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum. Lakoff, G. & Johnson, M. (1999). Philosophy in the Flesh: The Embodied Mind and its Challenge to Western Thought. New York: Basic Books. Lawvere, F. W. (2002). Categorical algebra for continuum mycrophysics. Journal of Pure and Applied Algebra, 175, 267–287."[(Editor), Alberto Peruzzi *Mind and Causality*. John Benjamins Publishing Company, 2004.]

14. "It will be partly modiﬁed by new experiences. This is due to the fact that perception and memory act according to a circular causality logic (see also [17, p. 87]): perception, created by the memory, aﬀects the latter and changes in the memory loop back on perception. It follows that a learning process is incessantly running, developing under a trial and error fashion and consisting in a substitution of classiﬁcation modalities, inbred or acquired, with new classiﬁcation modalities; this substitution is based upon a partial restructuring of the neural connections system (see also [4, pp."[D'Agostino, Marcello (eds.) *New essays in logic and philosophy of science*. London: College Publivations, 2010.]

15. "If we do not provide a metatheoretical description of LIS, it will become difficult for others, such as computer scientists and software developers, to understand that they have entered a new territory with different rules. We must provide a strong theoretical understanding of the difference between physical and intellectual access. The growth of the Internet makes this knowledge more important every day. What is new in the cybersemiotic approach is the development of a theoretical framework for LIS from recognized theories of cybernetics, systems, semiotics, communication, science, and linguistics – a framework that is bridging the gaps separating technical, scientific, social scientific, and humanistic approaches to the design and development of DR systems in LIS."[Brier, Soren *Cybersemiotics: Why Information Is Not Enough!*. 2nd. University of Toronto Press, 2008.]