Created: 2025-11-01 19:50:33
Origin: suggested
Selected:  AICR[v. 20020404] Prn:23/02/2006; 11:23 F: DDCS708. tex / p. 4 (172)  Kirstie Edwards et al. Writing research has evolved from being focused primarily on the text in early models into gradually incorporating increasingly complex perspectives, with the writing process recognized as a social and communicative act. Partly, the concern in modeling writing appears to be identifying the influences on the process and partly, identifying the process itself.[Information And Document Design: Varieties on Recent Research (Document Design Companion Series), Information Design Conference, Saul Carliner, Jan Piet Verkens, Cathy De Waele, 2006]

--- Context List ---
01. " AICR[v. 20020404] Prn:23/02/2006; 11:23 F: DDCS708. tex / p. 4 (172)  Kirstie Edwards et al. Writing research has evolved from being focused primarily on the text in early models into gradually incorporating increasingly complex perspectives, with the writing process recognized as a social and communicative act. Partly, the concern in modeling writing appears to be identifying the influences on the process and partly, identifying the process itself."[Information And Document Design: Varieties on Recent Research (Document Design Companion Series), Information Design Conference, Saul Carliner, Jan Piet Verkens, Cathy De Waele, 2006]

02. "8. 2). 8 Viewed as an electronic document collection, our prototype was an exploration of the possibilities for combined use of text and images in the work of searching and browsing. More specifically, our prototype supported search with a full-text information retrieval program (Cutting, Pedersen, & Halvorsen, 1991). Because only minimal labeling information folder name) was associated with the docu8The development of the prototype involved a three-way collaboration among M, the authors of this article, and Ramana Rao, a research colleague at Xerox PARC."[Social Science, Technical Systems, and Cooperative Work: Beyond the Great Divide, Geoffrey Bowker (Ed.), Susan Leigh Star (Ed.), Les Gasser (Ed.), William Turner (Ed.), 2014]

03. "7 the top ranked word in the 33 K words dictionary(1) is “TENNIS”, a word instance that is partially occluded in the image and whose recognition would be very diﬃcult without the context provided by the scene. 5 Conclusion In this paper we have presented a method that generates contextualized perimage lexicons based on visual information. This way we take a ﬁrst step towards the use of the rich visual information contained in scene images that could provide the missing context to improve text detection and recognition results."[Computer Vision – ECCV 2016 Workshops: Amsterdam, The Netherlands, October 8-10 and 15-16, 2016, Proceedings, Part I, Gang Hua, Hervé Jégou (eds.), 2016]

04. "Finally, the weaving process is done and we have a new texture that works compositionally across the materials from which it has been designed (see Figure 51). In a sense, and after a thoughtful and deliberate process of choosing and bringing together different materials, the composition stands out as en emergent property from the interplay in-between the materials. It is important here to understand that these examples from the process of creating new interactive textiles only serves just as an example of the more general process of working compositionally in the creation of new textures."[Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies, Mikael Wiberg, 2010]

05. "The authors’ explanation of this paradoxical result for the document design field is based on Kintsch’s comprehension model (1988, 1994, 1998). Any text can be understood on at least two levels: the text-base (propositional representation of literal text contents) and the situational model (a representation of what the text is about, enriched by the reader’s relevant knowledge) (Glenberg, Meyer, & Linden 1987)."[Information And Document Design: Varieties on Recent Research (Document Design Companion Series), Information Design Conference, Saul Carliner, Jan Piet Verkens, Cathy De Waele, 2006]

06. "But they also have applications in Computer Vision research. They have been used for unsupervised image classiﬁcation by Li et al. [22] when Bagof-Visual-Words was a dominant method for image classiﬁcation. Nowadays they are a common tool for automatic image annotation methods. In this paper we present a method that generates contextualized lexicons based on visual information. We use a similar approach to [20] in topic models to exploit correlation between visual and textual information."[Computer Vision – ECCV 2016 Workshops: Amsterdam, The Netherlands, October 8-10 and 15-16, 2016, Proceedings, Part I, Gang Hua, Hervé Jégou (eds.), 2016]

07. "Due to their specific characteristics, each modality has its own needs with regard to the used input device. Currently, we concentrate on four modalities in particular to facilitate the collaborative interaction process. The first modality is direct manipulation, which is suitable 50 F. Di Fiore, P. Vandoren, and F. Van Reeth for direct interaction with the 3D virtual environment. Secondly, we look at interaction through gesturing symbols in order to facilitate a sketching process. As a third modality we consider interaction through menu and widget manipulation."[Cooperative Design, Visualization, and Engineering: First International Conference, CDVE 2004, Palma de Mallorca, Spain, September 19-22, 2004. Proceedings, Yuhua Luo, José Miguel Dias (auth.), Yuhua Luo (eds.), 2004]

08. "The main intuition of our method is that visual information may provide in some cases a valuable cue for text recognition algorithms: there are some words for which occurrence in a natural scene image correlates directly with objects appearing in the image or with the scene category itself. For example, if there is a telephone booth in the image the word “telephone” has a large probability of appearance, while if the image is a mountain landscape the “telephone” word is less likely to appear."[Computer Vision – ECCV 2016 Workshops: Amsterdam, The Netherlands, October 8-10 and 15-16, 2016, Proceedings, Part I, Gang Hua, Hervé Jégou (eds.), 2016]

09. "The training samples in our framework are composed by a couple of visual information (an image) and some associated textual information (e. g. a set of image captions and/or the annotations of words that appear in the image), see Fig. 2(a). Our model assumes that the textual information describe the content of the image either directly or indirectly and hence can be used to generate contextualized lexicons for natural images. In the next section we explain how we learn the LDA topic model to discover latent topics from training data by using only the textual information."[Computer Vision – ECCV 2016 Workshops: Amsterdam, The Netherlands, October 8-10 and 15-16, 2016, Proceedings, Part I, Gang Hua, Hervé Jégou (eds.), 2016]

10. "Process signs are abstract signs as they do not directly occur within the implemented computer system itself. They are rather used to describe the possible interaction processes of users with the system. From a process perspective every BIM system offers different use modes that allow users to complete several tasks. The completion of a task, in turn, requires users to conduct several actions. The second part of the framework, here labeled “content” describes the signs that allow users to initiate and follow these actions."[Computing in Civil Engineering (2012), Flood, Ian; Issa, R. Raymond, 2014]