Created: 2025-12-27 14:05:16
Origin: suggested
Selected: Such stairs could be used as a way of asserting the separation between the gods and mortal men. They could, however, also be used in some instances as a method of human sacrifice, the victim pushed from the top providing a grisly reminder that stairs are as potentially deadly as they are useful. Stairs still hold cultural references. In films, characters attending parties usually arrive descending a set of stairs.[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

--- Context List ---
01. "How dull, in contrast, are intact stairs who stand with ease, paying no attention to the perfect state of their matter. Such stairs rise despite their steps. The function transcends the material. The material is instrumental to an overriding activity that pursues its goal without noticeable difficulty. A flight of stairs is but of fleeting interest, unless it is a new and remarkable form."[Ginsberg, Robert *The Aesthetics of Ruins: Illustrated by the Author*. Rodopi, 2004.]

02. "One thing that becomes most apparent here is Mielke's focus on the stair users -  ever present in their multitude. The  stair becomes a palimpsest of observation, which carries complex traces of use: traces of gender, traces of social rank,  traces of craftsmen's rules and transmissions. In the context of his equally disciplined and passionate research, Mielke  coined the term "Scalalogy" -  a term which clearly differentiates itself from basic Stair Research: "Scalalogy is the  science of the interactions between humans and stairs, between foot and step. Since no one could possibly climb a stair  without having contact with its steps, an interdependency is created, between the claims made by the living, and the  reflection of such claims by the material. " "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

03. "Some people still protest that such a distinction should still be made – that the word ‘staircase’ should mean the enclosure and not the stair. However, this definition does not reflect either the OED or common usage. As the OED admits, the word staircase is now (and has been for some time) used to mean ‘a flight of stairs or sometimes a whole series of flights of stairs with their supporting framework, balusters etc. ’ This book will follow the OED definition and the general understanding, that a staircase means the whole, made up of stairs, balusters, handrails, etc."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

04. "PAGE 228 STAIR 14. 1996 Spiritual stairs between earth and heaven STAIR PAGE 229 STAIR PAGE 230 15. 1999  Gothic and Renaissance stairs The premise for this research was the idea  that a new feel for life intrinsically had to  produce new products, that alongside the  emergence of a new architecture, new  stairs would arise. The stairs form part of valuable haptic  experiences. Among all the building  components, they reflect most accurately  the habits of its users. An examination of  their original texture and their consequent  changes may allow for conclusions to be  drawn, which can answer the question  raised above regarding the time when  lifestyles changed. In order to obtain the  most convincing results possible, this  general question is broken down into  14 sub-items: "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

05. "Such stairs could be used as a way of asserting the separation between the gods and mortal men. They could, however, also be used in some instances as a method of human sacrifice, the victim pushed from the top providing a grisly reminder that stairs are as potentially deadly as they are useful. Stairs still hold cultural references. In films, characters attending parties usually arrive descending a set of stairs."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

06. "The elevated moving stairs and exciting lifts create a new art form (Figures 3. 18a and 3. 18b). The success rests upon the innate curiosity of people to ascend and move to brighter elements in the interior. Vertigo is combated by tinted glass balustrades, ledges and high-level handrailing. 3. 2 Accommodation stairs Accommodation stairs are de®ned as additional or amenity stairs in excess of means of escape provisions."[Blanc, Sylvia, and Alan Blanc *Stairs, Second Edition*. Architectural Press, 2001.]

07. "Applications for the copyright holder's written permission to reproduce any part of this publication should be addressed to the publishers British Library Cataloguing in Publication Data Blanc, Sylvia Stairs. ± 2nd ed. 1. Staircases 2. Stairs I. Title II. Blanc, Alan 721. 8 0 32 Library of Congress Cataloguing in Publication Data A catalogue record for this book is available from the Library of Congress ISBN 0 7506 4846 5 Printed and bound in Great Britain Contents Foreword vii 1 Introduction 1 2 Civic and public stairs 3 Commercial stairs 4 Domestic stairs 5 External stairs 5 29 47 70 6 Detailed construction: timber 92 7 Detailed construction: iron, steel and other metals 114 8 Concrete stairs 136 9 Stonework and composite construction 151 10 Design codes and procedures 11 Elevators and mechanical circulation 178 12 International case studies 13 Case studies in the UK Epilogue Index 230 231 200 213 158 This Page Intentionally Left Blank Foreword It is cause for wonderment that the seemingly mundane device de®ned as `a means of passing from one level to another by increments, more or less comforable ± the vertical measures known as risers and the horizontal goings as treads' has, through history, generated such richly charged cultural and technical invention."[Blanc, Sylvia, and Alan Blanc *Stairs, Second Edition*. Architectural Press, 2001.]

08. "Galea et al. (2009) reported occupants stopping to allow others to pass them. Other studies (i. e. , Frantzich 1996; Ye et al. 2008) observed some occupants engaging in passing behavior, but did not indicate how the dynamics occurred. 26 3. 16 3 Additional Variables Merging Three different types of merging are possible. In the first, occupants in the stairs defer to occupants entering the stairs (Pauls and Jones 1980; Proulx et al."[Hoskins, Bryan L., and James A. Milke (auth.) *Study of Movement Speeds Down Stairs*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2013.]

09. "The so-called 7/11 stair geometry commonly required in US codes meets the relation 2R+G=635. Templer 15 summarizes a number of research studies of stair geometry and safety. Many such studies were conducted by observing people moving up or down stairs in buildings. Observations in subway or train stations at rush hours provided data for higher population densities."[Bukowski, Richard W. *Emergency Egress From Buildings*. National Institute of Standards and Technology, 2009.]

10. "Even for buildings less than 11 stories, occupants located closer to the stair may travel further in the stair than outside of it. Furthermore, because the stair shaft is required to be fire-rated and means of egress cannot have occupants move to a less safe location (NFPA 2009), the stair tends to be one of the last components in many complex egress systems."[Hoskins, Bryan L., and James A. Milke (auth.) *Study of Movement Speeds Down Stairs*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2013.]

11. "12 Templer, J. , Stair Shape and Human Movement, Ph. D. dissertation, Colombia University, 1974. 13 Templer, J. , Mullet, G. M. , Archea, J. , and Margulis, S. T. , An Analysis of the Behavior of Stair Users, NBSIR 78-1554, NBS, 1978. 2 14 Blondel, F. , 1675-1683. Cours d’Architecture Enseigne dans l’Academie Royale d’Architecture, Paris. Templer, J. , The Staircase, Studies of Hazards, Falls, and Safer Design, MIT Press, 1992."[Bukowski, Richard W. *Emergency Egress From Buildings*. National Institute of Standards and Technology, 2009.]

12. "Stairs Semicircular stairs nestled between walls of foundation skirting is an excellent feature for distinguishing a fairly undistinguished deck. This small, gray dining deck also features natural wood railings with glass inserts, but it’s the stairs that set a truly sophisticated tone. This is why choosing stair style is always a part of a good deck design—they should never be an afterthought Stair configuration goes far in determining how the deck is perceived."[Peterson, Chris *Deck ideas you can use: creative deck designs for every home & yard*. Minneapolis, Minn: Creative Publishing international, 2011.]

13. "NEWEL The post, generally square in section, which receives the balustrade hand-rail at a change of direction of a stair or landing; the central post or pillar of a spiral stair, often consisting of a series of drums carved integrally with the stair treads themselves."[Chitham, Robert *The Classical Orders of Architecture,*. 2nd ed. Architectural Press, 2005.]

14. "Here there are seven creating a grand axis that at one point ascends a stair."[Unwin, Simon *Doorway*. Routledge, 2008.]

15. "Restricted flows have been therefore implemented at each floor-to-stair connection. It is also important to mention how the two models deal with merging flows in stairs, i. e. the conflict between agents coming from the stairs and agents coming from the floors. This is in fact one of the key aspects to be considered for the calculation of evacuation times in high-rise building stairway evacuations (Galea et al."[Ronchi, Enrico, and Daniel Nilsson (auth.) *Assessment of Total Evacuation Systems for Tall Buildings*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2014.]

16. "Stairs in Pathfinder Stairs are represented in Pathfinder through straight-run of steps. The model requires the input data about riser, tread and width (see Fig. 4. 21). In Pathfinder, the specified tread rise and run are the factors considered in the calculation, i. e. , the simulation is not dependent on the geometric slope of the stairs. Stairways denote areas where the maximum occupant speed is controlled by an alternate specific calculation."[Ronchi, Enrico, and Daniel Nilsson (auth.) *Assessment of Total Evacuation Systems for Tall Buildings*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2014.]

17. "It is only in modern times and the  1 0 th century that the opening created  by the enclosing stairs, has become  a tool for design. Its outline follows  contemporary and fashionable forms  °f ornamentation. blot only the stairs with its sequence  °f steps, and its balustrades, but also  the 'eye' of the stair received a new  Modern take. Master builders of winding stairs built before the baroque  were not yet ready to address the 'eye'  of the stairs in design terms. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

18. "It is therefore necessary to distinguish  between stairs that are acting merely as  mediators, and stairs that have become  autonomous architectural creations. This development of autonomous staircase  architecture is supported by one essential  element in the garden, which does not  have a rising, but a falling tendency: the  water. Stairs and cascades became complementary design factors in garden art. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

19. "STAIR PAGE 171 notation sheets (erfassungsbögen) One astounding phenomenon throughout art and architectural history is  that the stairs often remain unmentioned in literature. It seems that, while taking  ¡nventory of a historic building, the stairs generally remained unnoticed. ■^e technical terms are hardly known. Out of necessity they become replaced by each writer's own creations, which  consequently are as diverse as its authors. None of the relevant reference  books on the art of stair construction seem to have been read or studied. The fact that stair construction is an art, is indeed noted once in a while, but  ibe fact that this art has at its very foundation a solid craft, is being ignored. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

20. "A spiral staircase accommodates each stride. That was the point where my initiative and  interest for the stairs arose. Now I knew that the stairs are not purely an aid, but that one  must consider the human who ascends the stairs. Here it came to my aid that I must  always ascend with only one leg. For me, the problems of ascension are exacerbated by a  multiple. I find it much harder than a normal human being who just races up the stairs. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

21. "The stairs are additively  integrated into the series of  rooms, not seen as part of  a spatial experience, but  always as one compartment  within other compartments.  Each staircase is set in an  enclosure that -  at least with  the straight-armed stairs -   has not yet evolved into a  stairwell. For the circular, spiral staircases in Italy (vacua ne l  m ezo), the only European  country with comparable  examples is Germany. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

22. "¡ e x a c t it u d e I Symbolic stairs are exactly ingrained and attached down  ' to,he last millimeter or tenth of a millimeter. But in places  PJBpre it doesn't really matter, such as side-stairs or also in  lurches, one finds a motley assortment of dimensions. such cases, a second or third-rate craftsman was  working with the materials at his disposal. So we came to  the realization that the exactitude of the stairs' dimensions  was directly related to their significance. The emperor, king  0r Prince had exactly constructed stairs. The beggar is not "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

23. "Those with short legs can climb the stairs on the  inside of the spiral, while those with long legs have enough  space to climb on the outside of the spiral. "There is  enough space for every length of stride. That was the point  when my initial interest in stairs was awakened. I realized  that stairs were not only the means to climb to another  room, but that one should consider who is climbing the  stairs."[INPUT: stair.pdf]

24. "1898 KupferstraBe 26 Residence, single-run  flight of wooden stairs  with stringers and a  winding turn halfway,  baluster posts. HarderstraBe 5 Monastery Gnadenthal  scala sancta, straight  limestone stair: 28  steps 10/19 cm, running  width 225 cm. Sacred Stairs (Scalae sanctae) symbolize the  Passion of Christ, where the faithful may  commemorate It by climbing the 28 steps, on  their knees. The model for all imitations is the  staircase on Mount Pilatus palace In lerusalem. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

25. "Masterpieces in stone and wood  appeared everywhere, some of which  oelong to the most precious items that  stair construction ever had to offer. Spiral staircases were commonly built  into towers. But there is no real inter- dependence between the tower and  the spiral staircase. forscalalogists, it is of course  'Rteresting to trace how and when the  f® previously independent structures  °f tower and stairs, have influenced  each other over the course of time,  ariously, the tower dominated over  ®'e stairs, and in other epochs, the two  Cornbined to one united construct. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]