Created: 2025-12-23 02:47:22
Origin: suggested
Selected: We do normally and naturally suppose that there is a deep causal resemblance between cases of modes falling into this intermediate class. It would be something of a surprise to learn, for example, that two or three very different mechanisms share the responsibility for phenomenally indistinguishable human pains, or for memories of past experience; or that several physically quite distinct kinds of light are seen as the same shade of brown. Yet such discoveries (which do sometimes occur and could in principle occur more generally) do not undermine the use of the concepts in question.[Ayers, Michael *Locke (Arguments of the Philosophers)*. New edition. Routledge, 1993.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Burrows shows that within each of three formal divisions—pure narrative, character narrative, and dialogue—the six novels show roughly similar frequency patterns. This pattern is disrupted, however, when comparisons are made between these different categories. Burrows also finds a difference between Jane Austen’s narrative styles at different stages of her career. Burrows and Hassall [8] use principal components∗ analysis to distinguish between Henry and Sarah Fielding, computing the rate of occurrence of the fifty most frequent words in the texts for disputed works and works for which there is no doubt as to whether Henry or Sarah was the author."[Read, Campbell B., N. Balakrishnan, Brani Vidakovic, and Samuel Kotz *Encyclopedia of Statistical Sciences*. 2nd. Wiley-Interscience, 2005.]

02. "In his work among the Achuar Indians, Philippe Descola accounts for similarities between forest growth and garden growth. Both of them comprise three layers of vegetation, and gardens, being much smaller than the forest, look like miniature forests to Western eyes. To the Indian’s eyes the situation is reversed: forests are gardens tended by supernatural spirits, and this similitude derives from their interpretation of kinship relationships rather than from our interpretation of the layering of vegetation. Two different cultural systems lead to diametrically opposed evidence offered by the naked eye."[Coan, Michel *Perspectives on Garden Histories (Dumbarton Oaks Colloquium Series in the History of Landscape Architecture) (v. 21)*. Dumbarton Oaks Research Library and Collection, 2006.]

03. "Note that we use two differently parameterized Dirichlet distributions in our generative process, one for drawing a multinomial distribution of topics and another for drawing a multinomial distribution of words. Although the model is simple, it does capture certain intuitions about documents and topics. In particular, it captures the notion that documents about different topics will, in general, contain different words in them and in different proportions. Additionally, a particular word can be associated with more than one topic, but for some topics it will appear with higher frequency than others."[Forte, Rui Miguel *Mastering Predictive Analytics with R*. Packt Publishing, 2015.]

04. "We do normally and naturally suppose that there is a deep causal resemblance between cases of modes falling into this intermediate class. It would be something of a surprise to learn, for example, that two or three very different mechanisms share the responsibility for phenomenally indistinguishable human pains, or for memories of past experience; or that several physically quite distinct kinds of light are seen as the same shade of brown. Yet such discoveries (which do sometimes occur and could in principle occur more generally) do not undermine the use of the concepts in question."[Ayers, Michael *Locke (Arguments of the Philosophers)*. New edition. Routledge, 1993.]

05. "Empedocles though employs a different explanatory structure, animal species having come about through a multiplicity of accidents, and our kosmos being one of many successive kosmoi, where chance plays a significant role in their formation. Empedocles may be an exception to this, but I argue there is another explanation for what Empedocles is doing. The best evidence for teleology in Empedocles is in three fragments: 86, 87 and 84, taken in succession:95 From these Aphrodite produced untiring eyes. 96 Aphrodite having given them bonds of affection. 97 As when someone intending to go forth on a journey prepares a lamp for himself, a fire burning through the night of winter, fitting linen screens as protection from assorted winds, which stop the blast of the blowing winds, but the finer light escapes, and shines across the threshold with unfailing beams."[Gregory, Andrew *Ancient Greek Cosmogony*. Bristol Classical Press, 2008.]

06. "We can also imagine that, in so far as different people see different parts of the town, they see some relationships that others did not see. Finally, we can imagine that some of these relationships correspond to relationships that others saw. For example, we might see different traffic intersections, yet we Order and diversity in Leibniz’s metaphysics 47 would see the same relationships or patterns. Similarly, monads in distant parts of the world could make the same conclusions about bodies or minds, even though they never experienced the same bodies or minds."[Perkins, Franklin *Leibniz and China: A Commerce of Light*. Cambridge University Press, 2004.]

07. "Earlier estimates based on extracts from every tenth page of Clark’s Concordance [3] yielded 1,082 words used once only, 1111 used 2 to 20 times, and 293 used over 20 times. This gave 2,486 words with total usages of 30,900: hence the rather lower estimate of a 25,000-word vocabulary for Shakespeare, based on the total of 310,000 words listed in this earlier and less complete concordance. Various models, some based on Fisher’s work on the abundance of species, others on a stochastic sampling∗ scheme, have been proposed for the rate of increase of an author’s vocabulary with the increase in sample size, i. e. , the relationship between types and tokens."[Read, Campbell B., N. Balakrishnan, Brani Vidakovic, and Samuel Kotz *Encyclopedia of Statistical Sciences*. 2nd. Wiley-Interscience, 2005.]

08. "The metaphor of monads as different perspectives on the same town captures what is needed for cultural exchange. Each monad has a unique point of view, allowing differences, but each is a point of view on the same thing, allowing similarities. More specifically, we can imagine that different people see some of the same parts of the town differently, and give different descriptions, but what these descriptions have in common is the order of events."[Perkins, Franklin *Leibniz and China: A Commerce of Light*. Cambridge University Press, 2004.]

09. "I shall return to this below, }6. 24 Or, better, his understanding: I shall return to this issue below, }5. See e. g. Burnyeat (1981), Nehamas (2004). 25 The exact signiﬁcance of this issue is disputed; but see Annas (1981); Frede (1999); Fine (2003). 108 IS DIALECTIC AS DIALECTIC DOES ?discontinuous. This, as well as general considerations about Plato’s account of the philosopher-king, might invite us to wonder whether the role of the objects at different stages of the line is more complex, in each case, than a direct encounter, from the topmost section down."[McCabe, Mary Margaret *Platonic Conversations*. Hardcover. Oxford University Press, USA, 2015.]

10. "I would like to come at this important issue in Hartshorne from another angle. Despite the fact that red is the opposite of green, in some circumstances the two harmonize. So also competition is the opposite of cooperation, yet in the aforementioned mixed economic (again, Rawlsian?)scheme the two can be harmonized. In both art and economics, nature can and often should be our model for aesthetically rich contributions to deity. It is seldom insipid or monotonous; even a tundra landscape provides more diversity than may initially be evident."[Dombrowski, Daniel A. *Divine Beauty: The Aesthetics of Charles Hartshorne*. Vanderbilt University Press, 2004.]

11. "Acknowledgments: This work was supported by DRET grant 88/215. 1 Introduction. Texture is a very important feature in remotely sensed images, and regions cannot be distinguished by method based only on shading. Several authors have been working on textured images, sometimes real images and sometimes images made of patches of textures (see for example [4, 6, 11, 8, 9, 13, 12, 7, 16]). Applications include the analysis of medical images, automated navigation, mapping of an image on a map, cartography, and so on."[Abdalla, Mona, Jim Kay (auth.), Piero Barone, Arnoldo Frigessi, and Mauro Piccioni (eds.) *Stochastic Models, Statistical Methods, and Algorithms in Image Analysis: Proceedings of the Special Year on Image Analysis, held in Rome, Italy, 1990*. Springer-Verlag New York, 1992.]

12. "Other properties of ordination methods 6. 6 HOW TO INTERPRET ORDINATIONS 97 have to be taken into account as well. There is an agreement that CA, for example, reﬂects the order of a gradient along the ﬁrst axis whereas in PCA inﬂections occur (Figure 6. 9), a fact graphically illustrated in Legendre and Legendre (1998) and considered in practical context in Section 7. 5. Interpretation of ordination is very much a graphical issue and the emphasis concentrates on generating an easy to read presentation of high dimensional data."[Wildi(auth.), Otto *Data Analysis in Vegetation Ecology, Second Edition*. Wiley-Blackwell, 2013.]

13. "I can only guess that this is different for everyone, although in most cases I have noticed the general similarity between different people’s experiences. Seeing the Fey The Fey, faeries, the Good Neighbours, the Shining Ones, devas, nature spirits…different theories relegate each title to a discrete otherworldly race; others say these are all different names for the same beings. As with so many things in the magickal world/s, one needs to intuit their way through the tangled wilderness at times, then reflect, ponder, dance/sing/laugh/make love—and learn!"[Parma, Gede *By Land, Sky & Sea: Three Realms of Shamanic Witchcraft*. Llewellyn Publications, 2010.]

14. "In the leftmost example, the figure is just about a parallelogram; this means that an additive model seems to explain the cell centers satisfactorily. In the middle example, there are consistent and perhaps noteworthy row and column adjustments; row 1 is higher than row 2, and column 2 is higher than column 1. But these adjustments are enough different in the different cells that we have nothing like a parallelogram. In this case, interaction will be substantial."[Terrell, George R. *Mathematical Statistics: A Unified Introduction*. Springer, 1999.]

15. "Instead, presuma . ·tt b tt d " b " . . assyQC',a" ted w,'th the term "substance" cnterla . , and an entity WI . . e ca . e a. f su h stance . "t of satisfying one or more of these criteria; those entitles which satIs y t e most, InVlrue. . . ' ". "b . or the most important, cntena will be called primary su stances. . . "ef lvIet 1020a 14-32 for a somewhat more refmed verSlOn of thiS Ig. 5a 3 8 - b 4 , " . passage. 20. See, e. g. , Mel. 1003a 34-b 14, . 'I' 21. Irwin (5 26 ) accepts Owen's reading of this passage. ~e. claIms that ~nstot e IS making a distinction between primary and sec. o. ndary quantitIes, ~~ld that these are quantities in different ways, with different ~. efil1l!lOns;"but the defimtlons of t~. e."[(ed.), Dominic J. O'Meara *Platonic investigations*. Washington, D.C.: Catholic University of America Press, 1985.]