Created: 2025-12-23 02:11:10
Origin: suggested
Selected: With regard to the former, a semantic relation obtains between certain Forms and particulars such that certain particulars bear the same name (eponymazein) ¯ as the Forms, such as the equal particulars that have the same name as the form of Equality. 46 The justification for the linguistic connection is provided by the idea of participation, or sharing, a relationship of similarity between particulars and Forms based on their common character.[Ward, Julie K. *Aristotle on Homonymy: Dialectic and Science*. 2010.]

--- Context List ---
01. "My analyses also makes apparent the two other dimensions of Saxe’s (2002) analytic framework—sociogenesis, concerned with appropriation and spread of cultural forms, and ontogenesis, the shifting relations between form and function of cultural artifacts—though it does so in a different way. Despite ample evidence that children make reference to each other’s contributions (e. g. , “the square that Connor said”), more important appears to be the emergence of the classification as a cultural artifact."[Roth, Wolff-Michael *Geometry as Objective Science in Elementary School Classrooms: Mathematics in the Flesh*. Routledge, 2011.]

02. "With regard to the former, a semantic relation obtains between certain Forms and particulars such that certain particulars bear the same name (eponymazein) ¯ as the Forms, such as the equal particulars that have the same name as the form of Equality. 46 The justification for the linguistic connection is provided by the idea of participation, or sharing, a relationship of similarity between particulars and Forms based on their common character."[Ward, Julie K. *Aristotle on Homonymy: Dialectic and Science*. 2010.]

03. "This is why I propose that we understand the generic in the ﬁrst way rather than the second. This reasoning generalizes to ‘p things k in way w’. OUP CORRECTED PROOF – FINAL, 22/2/2018, SPi  THE MECHANISM Here is another way to make the point. Suppose that there is such a thing as the way that Americans look and such a thing as the way that Canadians look and that these two ways are the same. Call this way ‘w’."[Breckenridge, Wylie *Visual Experience: A Semantic Approach*. Oxford University Press, 2018.]

04. "There are many ways of saying the same thing, and many different things communicated in every sentence. For a machine to process the full range of human language, it must “understand” and react appropriately to a huge variety of potential expression. Many promising techniques are being developed using both manual and automated analysis of language, including statistical studies of massive data sets drawn from the Web. The intersection of language and knowledge is an area that we have great interest in and are actively pursuing in Project Halo, dealing with the full range of linguistic expression."[Allen., Paul *Idea man : a memoir by the cofounder of Microsoft*. Portfolio / Penguin, 2011.]

05. ". . belongs to art. 99 As Patrick Byrne has argued, this passage suggests the best way to understand “memory of the same ” in both Posterior Analytics II. 19 and here at 980b29: “tou autou does not refer to a ‘same’ object repeatedly remembered, but rather to the ‘same’ object of empeiria itself, namely the connection . ”100 The connection itself is a certain gathering together 97 98 99 100 NE VI. 8, 1142a15–6. Heidegger, Platon: “Sophistes,” 72/50. Meta . I. 1, 981a5–12. Byrne, Analysis and Science in Aristotle , 174."[Long, Christopher P. *Aristotle on the Nature of Truth*. Cambridge University Press, 2010.]

06. "The mind thus becomes aware of sets of similar differences, and forms series of terms with the same kind and amount of difference between them, terms which, as they succeed each other, maintain a constant direction of serial increase. This sense of constant direction in a series of operations we saw in Chapter XIII (p. 490) to be a cardinal mental fact. "A differs from B differs from C differs from D, etc. ," makes a series only when the differences are in the same direction. In any such difference-series all terms differ in just the same way from their predecessors."[James, William *Principles of Psychology*. 2010.]

07. "At the same time, the ﬁgure for great sense of self has hardly changed, and that for great sense of community has actually doubled. Nonetheless, the prediction based on qualitative semantic analysis is supported by both sets of ﬁgures: they both show that the ﬁgures for great sense of community are, as predicted, much higher than those for great sense of self (in 2007, ten times higher, and in 2008, thirty times higher)."[Wierzbicka, Anna *Experience, evidence, and sense : the hidden cultural legacy of English*. Oxford, Toronto: Oxford University Press, 2010.]

08. "It is not sufficient to use the same words in order to understand one another: we must also em- Purchase the entire Coradella Collegiate Bookshelf on CD at http://collegebookshelf. net 239 ploy the same words for the same kind of internal experiences, we must in the end have experiences IN COMMON. On this account the people of one nation understand one another better than those belonging to different nations, even when they use the same language; or rather, when people have lived long together under similar conditions (of climate, soil, danger, requirement, toil) there ORIGINATES therefrom an entity that “understands itself ”—namely, a nation."[Nietzsche Friedrich, coradella *Beyond Good and Evil*. 2011.]

09. "And these differ from one another in the aforementioned way. Therefore, in a way [the starting-points] they mention are the same, and [in a way] different. Certainly it would seem to most people that they are different, but they are the same [189a] in that they are analogous. For they take contraries from the same column,4 some of them wider in extent and some narrower. So in this way their accounts are both the same and different, some better and some worse, and some [posit contraries] better known by definition, as we mentioned [5] before, and others [posit contraries] better known by perception."[Cohen, S. Marc, Patricia Curd, and C.D.C. Reeve *Readings in Ancient Greek Philosophy: From Thales to Aristotle*. 5th. Hackett Publishing Company, Inc., 2016.]

10. "Whether described as classification, indexing, categorisation or taxonomy, the typological effort essentially constitutes grouping similar things together in a way that is meant to be helpful. The helpfulness of types can be expressed in different ways by different architects. A prized benefit is the legacy of rationality. The systemic reasoning behind the emergence of a type replicates a scientific approach; it conveys that an underlying strict logic is controlling a discipline that might at times appear incoherent and out of control."[Jacoby, Sam, and Christopher Lee *Typological Urbanism: Projective Cities (Architectural Design January February 2011, Vol. 81, No. 1)*. John Wiley & Sons, 2011.]

11. "(Here and in the rest of this section I draw upon the very helpful discussion in Tye (1984), pp. 207–9. )According to Conjunction, someone can have a visual experience that is occurring in way wg and a visual experience that is occurring in way ws without having a visual experience that is occurring in way wgs, because in such cases she has two simultaneous visual experiences—one that is occurring in way wg and one that is occurring in way ws. This is plausible only if in such cases there are two things involved that we can use to individuate the visual experiences in a principled way."[Breckenridge, Wylie *Visual Experience: A Semantic Approach*. Oxford University Press, 2018.]

12. "Aristotle already has established that the common term, or common attribute, the medical, is non-synonymous insofar as he has shown that there are different uses of the term: “medical” does not signify the same character or quality when it is used in reference to an instrument, an 22 The slippage from medical art in Meta. to medical man in EE as the primary thing can be explained by the fact that the medical person and the medical art are the same with respect to having the same form; both serve as primary instances insofar as medicine and the medical person are intrinsic denominations of the medical in Cajetan’s sense."[Ward, Julie K. *Aristotle on Homonymy: Dialectic and Science*. 2010.]

13. "The relevance of the public/private dimension to great sense is also supported by the marked contrast in results obtained for great sense of community (common) and great sense of self (rare). Here, the difference in proportions is staggering (see table 6. 15): TABLE 6. 15. sense of community great sense of community sense of self great sense of self 1,500,000 114,000 1,500,000 11,400 As we have seen in the section on sense of self, this phrase, too, can readily take some modiﬁers, especially strong."[Wierzbicka, Anna *Experience, evidence, and sense : the hidden cultural legacy of English*. Oxford, Toronto: Oxford University Press, 2010.]

14. "that e. g. a particular (in the sense of 'specific') shade of knowledge or a particular bit of linguistic knowledge cannot be present in more than one individual. In the latter cases we are dealing, not with particulars in the strict sense of the word, but with infimae species. One specific shade of pink may be present in (A) as well as in (B), but at the same time (A)'s particular pink and (B)'s particular pink are-though specifically identicalnumerically different. It is only in the latter (numerical) sense of the words 'the same' (identical)-and in the corresponding strict sense of 'particular' -that different subjects indeed cannot share the same (identical) particular property."[Algra, Keimpe *Concepts of space in Greek thought*. Brill, 1995.]

15. "Such quantitative corroboration is not necessary to validate the qualitative semantic analysis but is nonetheless extremely interesting and valuable. In any case, the prevailing overall consistency of the numerical results requires an explanation. 10. 3. Stable and Overwhelmingly Sharp Contrasts In many cases, predictions based on semantic analysis are corroborated by extremely sharp numerical contrasts that have proved stable over time. For example, in May 2007 the results for deep sense of shame and deep sense of sadness were many thousands of times higher than those for clear sense of shame and clear sense of sadness, and the same proved to be the case when the search was repeated in March 2008 (table 10. 4)."[Wierzbicka, Anna *Experience, evidence, and sense : the hidden cultural legacy of English*. Oxford, Toronto: Oxford University Press, 2010.]