Created: 2025-11-02 14:54:54
Origin: suggested
Selected: Still, in retrospect, this was the period during which I began to "wake up," breaking out of a technical cognitive style that I now regard as extremely constricting. I believe that a technical field such as AI can contribute a great deal to our understanding of human existence, but only once it develops a much more flexible and reflexive relation to its own language, and to the experience of research and life that this language organizes. My second intellectual breakthrough occurred during my initial attempt to read Foucault's Archaeology of Knowledge (1972).[Social Science, Technical Systems, and Cooperative Work: Beyond the Great Divide, Geoffrey Bowker (Ed.), Susan Leigh Star (Ed.), Les Gasser (Ed.), William Turner (Ed.), 2014]

--- Context List ---
01. "Still, in retrospect, this was the period during which I began to "wake up," breaking out of a technical cognitive style that I now regard as extremely constricting. I believe that a technical field such as AI can contribute a great deal to our understanding of human existence, but only once it develops a much more flexible and reflexive relation to its own language, and to the experience of research and life that this language organizes. My second intellectual breakthrough occurred during my initial attempt to read Foucault's Archaeology of Knowledge (1972)."[Social Science, Technical Systems, and Cooperative Work: Beyond the Great Divide, Geoffrey Bowker (Ed.), Susan Leigh Star (Ed.), Les Gasser (Ed.), William Turner (Ed.), 2014]

02. " AICR[v. 20020404] Prn:23/02/2006; 11:23 F: DDCS708. tex / p. 4 (172)  Kirstie Edwards et al. Writing research has evolved from being focused primarily on the text in early models into gradually incorporating increasingly complex perspectives, with the writing process recognized as a social and communicative act. Partly, the concern in modeling writing appears to be identifying the influences on the process and partly, identifying the process itself."[Information And Document Design: Varieties on Recent Research (Document Design Companion Series), Information Design Conference, Saul Carliner, Jan Piet Verkens, Cathy De Waele, 2006]

03. "Fitzgerald believes that knowledge has multiple realities: that some knowledge is out there in the text, some is in the mind of the author and the reader, and some is created between and among author, reader and text. She argues that the theories of knowledge are not totally exclusive, but can be combined appropriately, just as Faigley argues that we should combine social perspectives to what we know of textual and individual perspectives of writing research. Writing is a complex social (Faigley 1985) phenomena and therefore difficult to capture in reality (Strauss 1987: 1–39)."[Information And Document Design: Varieties on Recent Research (Document Design Companion Series), Information Design Conference, Saul Carliner, Jan Piet Verkens, Cathy De Waele, 2006]

04. "In Nystrand’s model of writing, the text is not autonomous, but a communicative event with a context of production and reception (Nystrand 1989: 76). The text is the negotiation of meaning between writer and reader. “We conceptualize text meaning, not in terms of the writer alone, but in terms of interaction between writer and reader purpose” (Nystrand 1989). Nystrand describes the restraints writers experience trying to meet readers’ purposes and expectations, as where social and cognitive factors interact in composing."[Information And Document Design: Varieties on Recent Research (Document Design Companion Series), Information Design Conference, Saul Carliner, Jan Piet Verkens, Cathy De Waele, 2006]

05. "When a text does generate unintended n1eanings, this is not solely an accomplishment of a creative reader, but a result of the interplay between the reader's world and the text's semantic structure. Because the nonostensive references in the text are inscribed in a semantic structure, the text is said to have attained a semantic independence. STRUCTURALISTIC AND SEMANTIC UNITS IN COMPUTER SYSTEMS Computer systems and use of computer systems do not fall readily into just one of Ricreur's descriptions of language, discourse, and text."[Social Science, Technical Systems, and Cooperative Work: Beyond the Great Divide, Geoffrey Bowker (Ed.), Susan Leigh Star (Ed.), Les Gasser (Ed.), William Turner (Ed.), 2014]

06. "It appears, for example, that the text of McNamara et al. (1996, Experiment 1) included 590 words in its original version against 1167 words in its revised version, the text of McNamara and Kintsch (1996, Experiment 1) 1030 against 1332 words, and the text of McNamara (2001) 650 against 900 words. It may be that high-knowledge readers felt a certain tiredness in front of a much longer text in its coherent version, and that these readers eventually processed it in a more superficial way, especially since they possessed knowledge about the topic of the text."[Information And Document Design: Varieties on Recent Research (Document Design Companion Series), Information Design Conference, Saul Carliner, Jan Piet Verkens, Cathy De Waele, 2006]

07. "In his chapter, Bannon sets out from another perspective but arrives at the same conclusion as Wagner, namely, that appropriate frameworks for action can be developed and filled out by ongoing research. Bannon is much more critical than Wagner of the idea that multidisciplinary projects require building a shared working culture. He provides a historical account of research in both human-computer interaction (HCI) and CSCW to show that both fields have developed boundary objects that focus common interests and allow for cross-disciplinary interaction and mutual learning."[Social Science, Technical Systems, and Cooperative Work: Beyond the Great Divide, Geoffrey Bowker (Ed.), Susan Leigh Star (Ed.), Les Gasser (Ed.), William Turner (Ed.), 2014]

08. "The word "model" is in quotes here because, of course, what such research shows is that a strict model of human action in most work situations is not possible or appropriate, rather, human action is driven by the concrete situation that exists at any moment and is constantly changing. This implies that office workers should be supported in their activities rather than building office automation systems. Extending the focus of concern from the humancomputer dyad to larger groups of people and machines engaged in collaborative tasks has become an important area for research in the new field of computer support for cooperative work (CSCW), discussed further later."[Social Science, Technical Systems, and Cooperative Work: Beyond the Great Divide, Geoffrey Bowker (Ed.), Susan Leigh Star (Ed.), Les Gasser (Ed.), William Turner (Ed.), 2014]

09. "This process of learning is currently underway. Simplified views of people's abilities and the nature of human work activity and the potential for automating it have been replaced by an understanding on the part of information systems developers of the need to explore the human and social world of work. Within CSCW, for example, one can see how this "turn to the social" has lead to least the beginning of a process of mutual learning between computer and social scientists (Sommerville, Sawyer, Rodden, & Bentley, 1992)."[Social Science, Technical Systems, and Cooperative Work: Beyond the Great Divide, Geoffrey Bowker (Ed.), Susan Leigh Star (Ed.), Les Gasser (Ed.), William Turner (Ed.), 2014]

10. "Parts 1-4. International Journal of Man-Machine Studies 26(1, 2, 4) and 27(2). Carroll, J. , and Olson, J. R. , eds. 1987 Mental Models in Human-Computer Interactions: Research Issues About What the User of Software Knows. Committee on Human Factors. Washington, D. C. : National Academy Press. Chambers, A . B . , and Nagel, D. C. 1985 Pilots of the future: Human or computer?IEEE Computer 74-87. Chignell, M. H. , and Peterson, J. R. in press Strategic human factors issues in knowledge engineering. Human Factors. Cleaves, D. A."[Human Performance Models for Computer-Aided Engineering, Jerome I. Elkind, Stuart K. Card, Julian Hochberg, Bev Huey, 1990]