Created: 2025-12-27 02:58:22
Origin: suggested
Selected: 2. 2. 2 Cylindrical and spiral stairs Some of the most graceful forms of stair are the cylindrical and spiral. The primitive spiral is found in medieval castle towers where the stone steps rest one on top of another with the edges built into the surrounding walls. Cylindrical stairs have been made as free-standing towers placed outside the building envelope.[Blanc, Sylvia, and Alan Blanc *Stairs, Second Edition*. Architectural Press, 2001.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Abrupt transitions from straight ground  to stair are avoided by creating very  shallow risers at the stair entry, which  progressively increase in height, then  slowly decrease to transition back to  straight ground, creating a shallow  s-curve in section. Treads remain at a constant depth  throughout, to focus the stair user's  attention on the ascending and  descending movements. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

02. "The desire to provide comfort can be seen,  even after 160 years, in the design of the stairs. Friedrich Mielke, Scalalogia Volume 7,  Treppen in Ingolstadt, 1992,"Vorwort," 7-10. 1875 1886 (stair)  i  Am Stein 1 Commercial and  residential: straight wooden stair turninQa,  center, vase-shaped  balusters (Dodcen) 1 1909 Am Stein 3 Commercial and  residential: straight '  wooden stair with two  runs and a turning  I   landing, upper part  with, lower part with^fl  stringers: goose-neck"!  balusters on the lower  levels, baluster posts 1  (Traljen) on the upper- 1  most run. "[INPUT: stair.pdf]

03. "RIGHT This is the perfect example of how a strong colour can be used in one space to make another space adjacent to it feel lighter and bigger. The diminutive staircase appears much larger than it actually is because the walls of the hall leading to it are painted in a dark ‘Inchrya Blue’. ‘Hardwick White’ on the stairs themselves and ‘Pointing’ on the staircase walls serve to create an even greater sense of light and space."[Studholme, Joa, and Charlotte Cosby *Farrow & Ball How to Decorate: Transform Your Home with Paint & Paper*. Mitchell Beazley, 2016.]

04. "From above, orange spiral stairs look like an organic sculpture, while lighting enhances the warm tones and grain patterns of the treads. A monochrome room is instantly changed by the addition of an orange cashmere runner and cushion band, and a display of kumquats. A carefully curated combination of wide and narrow stripes in spice tones makes a graphic statement."[Hoppen, Kelly *House of Hoppen: A Retrospective*. Jacqui Small, 2016.]

05. "The elevated moving stairs and exciting lifts create a new art form (Figures 3. 18a and 3. 18b). The success rests upon the innate curiosity of people to ascend and move to brighter elements in the interior. Vertigo is combated by tinted glass balustrades, ledges and high-level handrailing. 3. 2 Accommodation stairs Accommodation stairs are de®ned as additional or amenity stairs in excess of means of escape provisions."[Blanc, Sylvia, and Alan Blanc *Stairs, Second Edition*. Architectural Press, 2001.]

06. "2. 2. 2 Cylindrical and spiral stairs Some of the most graceful forms of stair are the cylindrical and spiral. The primitive spiral is found in medieval castle towers where the stone steps rest one on top of another with the edges built into the surrounding walls. Cylindrical stairs have been made as free-standing towers placed outside the building envelope."[Blanc, Sylvia, and Alan Blanc *Stairs, Second Edition*. Architectural Press, 2001.]

07. "It is a fundamental part of the grid and a key focal point in the space, slicing horizontally through the mid-height portion of the room. Steps leading up to a monastically simple bathroom are separated from the adjoining bedroom by Japanese-style screen doors. The panels set into the dark wood framework are sheer natural linen encased in glass. In this glamorous bathroom, the curved shapes of the freestanding bath, elegant floor-mounted tap and perforated gold Tom Dixon pendant light, hung low, offset the straight lines of the black slatted vertical runner, black-lacquered counter and beautifully grained taupe marble wall."[Hoppen, Kelly *House of Hoppen: A Retrospective*. Jacqui Small, 2016.]

08. "However, research also shows that those designing new stairs should listen to Palladio and Alberti, breaking long steep flights wherever possible with wide, well-lit landings. The result will be stairs that are easier to climb and safer to descend. Handrails, Guard Rails and Balustrades Handrails, guardrails and balustrades fulfil three different functions."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

09. "Cantilevered stairs have been described in the previous chapters. They provide an excellent example of the variety of ways that engineers become involved, whether the stairs are traditional in form and materials, or are modern feature stairs built in new materials. The way these stairs ‘work’ structurally has been the subject of much debate between engineers for many years."[Campbell, James W. P., and Michael Tutton *Staircases: History, Repair and Conservation*. Routledge, 2014.]

10. "Also, counterflow was present in the stair with only the photoluminescent markings. Density was calculated for the average conditions in each stair during the busiest 3 min of the drill. The densities were 2. 05 persons/m2 (photoluminescent markings stair), 1. 00 persons/m2 (reduced emergency lighting and photoluminescent markings stair), 1. 23 persons/m2 (reduced emergency lighting stair), and 1. 30 persons/m2 (normal emergency lighting stair)."[Hoskins, Bryan L., and James A. Milke (auth.) *Study of Movement Speeds Down Stairs*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2013.]

11. "However, an entrance hall, especially one with little or no natural light, that is painted a dark colour exudes glamour at the point of arrival and means that every room leading off it feels bigger and brighter. Conversely, large, light rooms are best suited to lighter tones of paint, which then lead to glimpses of intriguing darker colour in smaller adjacent rooms."[Studholme, Joa, and Charlotte Cosby *Farrow & Ball How to Decorate: Transform Your Home with Paint & Paper*. Mitchell Beazley, 2016.]

12. "Miniature recessed under-rail lights, like the one on the bottom of this handrail, light the way on a set of steps with an almost mysterious illumination. This type of hidden light is ideal for a more modern look on a deck that features sleek lines and cutting-edge materials. The amazing variety of deck lighting fixtures available opens up the potential to use them in new and creative ways."[Peterson, Chris *Deck ideas you can use: creative deck designs for every home & yard*. Minneapolis, Minn: Creative Publishing international, 2011.]

13. "Well-lit decks are usually outfitted with several different types of lights that serve different purposes. Here, under-bench lights add a little definition to the edge of the deck, making sure nobody trips over the benches. Stair-riser lights also provide safe passage for anyone walking out onto the lawn from the deck, and a privacy screen light spreads a soft, appealing glow over people enjoying a meal at the table."[Peterson, Chris *Deck ideas you can use: creative deck designs for every home & yard*. Minneapolis, Minn: Creative Publishing international, 2011.]

14. "The study examined both the unidirectional and bidirectional flow cases for ascending and descending stairs. The stair had an effective width of 1. 94 m with a riser height of 16 cm and a tread depth of 31 cm. Observations were recorded over a length of 5. 58 m with the data extraction process being automated. When the stairs were at the peak capacity, the average descending speed ranged from 0. 48 to 0. 65 m/s."[Hoskins, Bryan L., and James A. Milke (auth.) *Study of Movement Speeds Down Stairs*. Springer-Verlag New York, 2013.]

15. "Narrow, operable, vertically-oriented windows provide natural ventilation. The flooring is of laminated walnut, and tile wraps around the window seating area and throughout the adjoining library space (Fig. 5. 11. 2a–d). The chapel’s etched glass windows, abstract in composition, fill the volume of the chapel with daylight."[Verdeber, Stephen F., and Ben J. Refuerzo *Innovations in Hospice Architecture*. Taylor & Francis, 2006.]

16. "A few studies were conducted in laboratory settings on specially constructed stair sections where the geometries and stair angle could be varied systematically. Templer himself conducted several of these studies, including some at NBS. Most of the studies reviewed concluded that the measure of Total Energy Cost per Meter Rise is a useful metric for the evaluation of stair design for normal use and comfort; however stair safety is more closely related to the likelihood of missteps which is a function of how the stair relates to the human gait."[Bukowski, Richard W. *Emergency Egress From Buildings*. National Institute of Standards and Technology, 2009.]

17. "Good lighting can create a warm atmosphere, highlight a beautiful object or transform the character of an interior by introducing areas of light and shadow. Bleak, overhead and bare light bulbs make a space seem unfriendly and unrelaxing, while a few table lamps or uplights can make a room seem soothing and welcoming."[May, Alex *Planning Your Perfect Home Renovation: Save time and money with this essential guide to fuss-free home improvements*. 2005.]

18. "Light is a threshold in itself, and it makes its own thresholds. You can step into the light coming through a doorway before you actually step across the threshold of the doorway itself. And with light comes other things: colour, warmth, perfume, even a sense of euphoria. Aldous Huxley, in Crome Yellow (1921), described the contrast entering a garden: ‘It was a landscape of black and white."[Unwin, Simon *Doorway*. Routledge, 2008.]

19. "Foot of stairs. 2. Balcony."[Contet, Frédéric *Masterpieces of Eighteenth-Century French Ironwork: With Over 300 Illustrations*. Dover Publications, 2004.]

20. "These charming old windows, like many old casements, lack crank mechanisms and open like small doors. I . . . ~ ~- J --. . . . t- III ~ o -' IIII ~ o . . . . I « l) z ::> '" A clever device for getting more light into a kitchen along a wall that otherwise would be given over to a solid mass of wood cabinetry is to incorporate an inoperable window behind the upper cabinet, face it with a glass door, and then simply allow the daylight to shine through the window and the cabinet into the room."[Labau, Peter *The New Bungalow Kitchen*. Taunton Press, 2007.]

21. "(Opposite, top) Freund’s husband built this work table and attached it to the wall underneath the window. An antique chandelier and small task lamp add to the natural light. “I think the low ceilings create a cozy dollhouse-like feeling that brings out the playfulness in me and my visitors. ” (Opposite, bottom) Old printer trays make handy compartmental storage for jewelry materials."[Kotite, Erika *She sheds : a room of your own*. Cool Springs Press, 2017.]

22. "Dark and light In our dreams and in reality the doorways we encounter are often ways from light into darkness or from darkness into light. The doorway is a frame for both, and an interface between them. light leaks into darkness; and a dark doorway can infect a light space. Light and dark have associations with understanding and superstition. Our association of doorways with transitions between light and dark is one of the most profound."[Unwin, Simon *Doorway*. Routledge, 2008.]

23. "Other dimensions apply to curved stairs 16 . Other factors relevant to stair safety include lighting, slip resistance, single steps (most codes prohibit flights of fewer than three steps), handrails, and inability to detect the edge of the tread due to lack of contrast. REVIEW OF INTERNATIONAL CODE REQUIREMENTS FOR EGRESS STAIRS The building regulations summarized below are from countries that are widely disbursed and culturally different, and should be representative of any range of methods used to treat egress."[Bukowski, Richard W. *Emergency Egress From Buildings*. National Institute of Standards and Technology, 2009.]

24. "Here, a generous mirror is positioned to bounce light off the angles of the ceiling and walls, a very clever strategy. A textured glass panel in the door protects privacy without totally blocking light. It’s a lovely touch in this well-lit room, but would be especially welcome in a bathroom without windows. A small shelf behind the sink is especially useful when counterspace is limited."[J., Farris *Kitchens & Baths for Today & Tomorrow*. 2017.]

25. "(Provision CPI)Inspired Kitchen & Baths D1007-103 / 4150 TB 140-163 Walls,Floors,Ceil_. qxd6 11/5/07 11:35 AM Page 150 (above) White tile and fixtures sparkle against the mellow tones of tongue-andgroove wood in this spa-like bathroom. Wood brings warmth and richness to any room, but careful thought and preparation is required to keep wood beautiful in a bathroom."[J., Farris *Kitchens & Baths for Today & Tomorrow*. 2017.]