Created: 2025-12-12 20:07:10
Origin: searched
Selected: Play and life are the key concepts connecting Wittgenstein and Nietzsche: life should play in language just as it does in nature or history. Philosophy, then, as a meta-language that describes and refines the “natural” language, is aimed not at the “truthful” analysis of language, but at playing its own language game with an increasing intensity. Language as a game contains in itself the refutation of pure analytism and presents philosophy with a new task of synthesis.[Epstein, Mikhail, and Igor E. Klyukanov *The transformative humanities : a manifesto*. New York: Bloomsbury Publishing, 2012.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Play and life are the key concepts connecting Wittgenstein and Nietzsche: life should play in language just as it does in nature or history. Philosophy, then, as a meta-language that describes and refines the “natural” language, is aimed not at the “truthful” analysis of language, but at playing its own language game with an increasing intensity. Language as a game contains in itself the refutation of pure analytism and presents philosophy with a new task of synthesis."[Epstein, Mikhail, and Igor E. Klyukanov *The transformative humanities : a manifesto*. New York: Bloomsbury Publishing, 2012.]

02. "Further I argue that, while preserving their loyalty to textuality, the humanities can offer a synthetic, rather than analytic, approach to language and initiate language games of their own designed to 20 The Transformative Humanities expand the field of the speakable and thinkable. Language is approached here as a form of life that needs permanent expansion and revitalization. This indicates the direction of a new synthesis where Wittgensteinian theory of language games merges with Nietzschean philosophy of life."[Epstein, Mikhail, and Igor E. Klyukanov *The transformative humanities : a manifesto*. New York: Bloomsbury Publishing, 2012.]

03. "The term "language game" is his, though he by no means gives it the kind of force found in Lyotard: so to speak, equivalent with "form of life. "There is, in Wittgenstein, little sense of how a language game belongs to its future. The richer images pertain to forms of life and to language itself, as for example: Remark: The picture we have of the language of the grownup is that of a nebulous mass of language, his mother tongue, surrounded by discrete and more or less clearcut language games, the technical languages."[Shapiro, Gary *After the Future: Postmodern Times and Places*. Albany: State University of New York Press, 1990.]

04. "This chapter examines the use of metaphor as a transformative methodology by which designers animate new body schema through imaginative projections that serve as the basis for the articulation of their projects. The architectural design process is presumed to be of great intellectual complexity. This it is, yet its source is in precognitive experience concerning which the metaphor enacts. Otherwise, the language of metaphor would not translate into design and built space. Contemporary building projects of a certain type and/or scale involve a myriad of professional specialists, with the architect in this process responsible for communicating to all expectations and intentions, coordinating work of the various disciplines, and assuring what is constructed meets predetermined standards."[(auth.), Gary Backhaus, Gary Backhaus, and John Murungi (eds.) *Symbolic Landscapes*. Springer Netherlands, 2009.]

05. "It is here that it is instructive to position the engagement and use of new digital media within architecture as part of these larger cultural transformations; for there is a parallel rise between the use of digital technology within architecture and popular entertainment. During the period that architecture slowly moved to adopt digital means of drawing and modelling these systems were producing ever more ‘realistic’ representations of architectural space within popular game environments."[Arya, Rina *Francis Bacon: Critical and Theoretical Perspectives*. Peter Lang International Academic Publishers, 2012.]

06. "According to Wittgenstein, language neither tells the truth about the world, nor really reflects the facts or atoms of the universe. Instead, it plays by its own rules that are different for various discourses and types of behavior: “Here the term ‘language game’ is meant to bring into prominence the fact that the speaking of language is part of an activity, or of a form of life” (Wittgenstein, 1994, p. 11). For Wittgenstein, language is not only a reflexive instrument, but also the play of life and, as such, the expansion of life into the sphere of signs."[Epstein, Mikhail, and Igor E. Klyukanov *The transformative humanities : a manifesto*. New York: Bloomsbury Publishing, 2012.]

07. "As the tissue of projects allows metamorphosis of project into project, the tissue of language permits any discussion or "language game" to merge into any other, and it permits metaphor. These remarks were introductory, considerations partly about language itself and partly about its perceptual effects. The philosophical questions about language and perception require a more searching treatment."[(auth.), Graeme Nicholson *Seeing and Reading*. Palgrave Macmillan UK, 1984.]

08. "As in the process of language-formation so in the process of spatial modelling both tendencies are active. NOTES TO PART TWO 1. René Descartes, 'Discourse on Method', in The Essential Descartes, ed. Margaret D. Wilson, New York, 1969, p. 118. 2. V. I. Vernadsky, Izbrannye sochineniya [Selected Works], vol. 5, Moscow, 1960, p. 102. 3. V. I. Vernadsky, Razmyshleniya naturalista. Nauchnaya my si' hak planetarnoe yavlenie [Thoughts of a Naturalist. Scientific Thinking as a Planetary Phenomenon), book 2, Moscow, 1977, p. 32."[Lotman, Yuri M. *Universe of the mind: a semiotic theory of culture*. London: Tauris, 1990.]

09. "One instructive essay is ‘Architecture as Decorated Shelter,’ in Aesthetics, 169–79. For an overview of ‘postmodern’ architectural thinking and work as a particular style, see Charles Jencks, The Language of Post-Modern Architecture (New York: Rizzoli International, 1987). John Caputo uses the metaphor of ‘surfaces’ in lauding Derrida’s radically disruptive, deconstructive readings: ‘Derrida systematically explores all the “surfaces” of language, all the possible graphic, phonic, rhythmic, and psychoanalytic linkages between words."[Capobianco, Richard M *Engaging Heidegger*. University of Toronto Press, Scholarly Publishing Division, 2010.]

10. "It is not used solely to build an argument or rationalize form but to disturb our process of design and expose unique social, environmental, and cultural issues embedded in the initial constraints of each project. As a design evolves, we renegotiate its conceptual framework through a process that is inherently fluid, adaptive, and self-critical. We use research to undermine many assumptions about architecture as a discipline, such as the fixity of building type, the hierarchy of facade and entry, the rigid nature of program, and the universal and global character that modern architecture has put into place."[James, Vincent, and Jennifer Yoos *VJAA: Vincent James Associates Architects*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2006.]

11. "This “Lego set” functions both in everyday language and within each code or subsystem. We also find it in philosophical language, where the omnipresence of combinations plays a crucial role 145 146 COMBINATION AND CONCEPTUALIZATION in conceptualization. That certainly does not mean that speakers of German spontaneously become “philosophers” or theoreticians merely by virtue of their language, but it remains that in German one can, quite differently from in French, conceptualize on the basis of the language’s basic rules and, as it were, “do philosophy with grammar. ” But the philosophical use of German grammar is based on a paradox."[Cassin, Barbara, Emily Apter, Jacques Lezra, and Michael Wood *Dictionary of Untranslatables: A Philosophical Lexicon*. Princeton University Press, 2014.]

12. "What we approach here, then, is the idea that language, as David Wood puts it, ‘gives, provides, [and] supplies ways of thinking’ (2002, p. 21). The open structures of language thus become the open structures of thought. Here, we come close to grasping more robustly the ‘openness’ of thought that we glimpsed in previous chapters. Of course, the rationalistic account of thinking would surely despair at this sense of openness. Indeed, the representationalist account of language that informs rationalism was so concerned by this feature of language that it sought to banish it to the realm of the graphic sign."[Williams, Emma *The ways we think: from the straits of reason to the possibilities of thought*. John Wiley & Sons, 2016.]

13. "Fig. 8. 6 Architecture as Organism: crystallization of intention encourages weakening of form Metaphor, Environmental Receptivity, and Architectural Design 199 8. 5. 2 Entertaining New Vocabularies: Edge/Corridor Effects Research is underway to develop alternative building materials, to advance energy performance, and to more efficiently “harvest” on site resources so as to minimize “off-site” environmental problems."[(auth.), Gary Backhaus, Gary Backhaus, and John Murungi (eds.) *Symbolic Landscapes*. Springer Netherlands, 2009.]

14. "(GS II. 1:140) [Every expression of human mental life can be understood as a kind of language, and this understanding, in the manner of a true method, everywhere raises new questions. It is possible to talk about a language of music and of sculpture, about a language of justice that has nothing directly to do with those in which German or English legal judgments are couched, about a language of technology that is not the specialized language of technicians. Language in such contexts means the tendency inherent in the subjects concerned — technology, art, justice, or religion — toward the communication of the contents of the mind."[Goebel, Rolf J. *A Companion to the Works of Walter Benjamin*. Camden House, 2009.]

15. "Through pursuing Saussure’s thought, a very different account of language and its relation to thought has thus come into view. For, rather 138 The Ways We Think than being seen simply as the ‘outer clothing’ for thought, language now comes to be understood as something that plays a crucial role in constructing and constituting our thoughts. This is an important point – yet it is also one that needs to be approached carefully and tentatively. We have not yet done enough in this chapter to understand its implications fully."[Williams, Emma *The ways we think: from the straits of reason to the possibilities of thought*. John Wiley & Sons, 2016.]