Created: 2025-11-25 19:35:53
Origin: searched
Selected: It is all a matter of context, dependent on from what perspective we are approaching the object or, in the language of the Sophist, how we speak of it: whether we mean something in one way or in a different way. But even the general idea of contextualizing concepts—meaning that in order to avoid explicit contradiction when dealing with contrary qualities we must differentiate when the referent is “spoken of in one way” as opposed to being “spoken of in a different way”—was not the breakthrough in composing a logos some associate with the Sophist 114—unless we 113 Sophist, 250e6ﬀ.[Parmenides., Plato., Parmenides., Sylvana Chrysakopoulou, and Arnold Hermann *Plato's Parmenides : text, translation & introductory essay*. Las Vegas: Parmenides Publishing, 2010.]

--- Context List ---
01. "It is all a matter of context, dependent on from what perspective we are approaching the object or, in the language of the Sophist, how we speak of it: whether we mean something in one way or in a different way. But even the general idea of contextualizing concepts—meaning that in order to avoid explicit contradiction when dealing with contrary qualities we must differentiate when the referent is “spoken of in one way” as opposed to being “spoken of in a different way”—was not the breakthrough in composing a logos some associate with the Sophist 114—unless we 113 Sophist, 250e6ﬀ."[Parmenides., Plato., Parmenides., Sylvana Chrysakopoulou, and Arnold Hermann *Plato's Parmenides : text, translation & introductory essay*. Las Vegas: Parmenides Publishing, 2010.]

02. "Take again the common view that the object of art is beauty. This view is sometimes rejected as both unrealistic and too precious by half; but such rejection can be reversed by accepting that beauty here stands for its opposite also. Then take another traditional view that beauty is a matter of form (perfection or imperfection of form); not a matter of form only however, but a matter of light shining, of splendour (or incursive shadow) also; and there is already a remarkable coincidence of key terms between art and creation in general."[Mackey, James P. *The Critique of Theological Reason*. 2000.]

03. "The crucial error lies in thinking that because one may or may not like purple, for example, it follows that beauty is merely in the eye of the beholder. But however much one likes or dislikes purple, one simply cannot see in it the gaiety of yellow. To reiterate a common theme: the thesis that beauty is merely in the eye of the beholder is problematic on several grounds, not least of which are phenomenological (SQ, 69–70)."[Dombrowski, Daniel A. *Divine Beauty: The Aesthetics of Charles Hartshorne*. Vanderbilt University Press, 2004.]

04. "Now all such things are not in nature, but the ironic subject sees them in nature. Similarly, we can also interpret all sensory illusions as irony on the part of nature. But it takes a consciousness that is itself ironic to become aware of this. The more pol,~mically developed an individual is, the more irony he will also find in nature. Therefore, such a view of nature belongs more to the romantic than to the classical trend. It was difficult for Greek harmoniousness to find such sarcasm in nature. I shall illustrate this with an example."[Kierkegaard, Søren, Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph von Schelling, Socrates., Edna Hatlestad Hong, Søren Kierkegaard, and Howard Vincent Hong *The concept of irony, with continual reference to Socrates : together with notes of Schelling's Berlin lectures*. Princeton, N.J: Princeton University Press, 1989.]

05. "Another hypothesis is employed in the establishment of the trichotomy: the principle of non-contrariety. This, it turns out, is not a principle which can be relied on in the everyday world. In that world, whatever is moving is also in some respect stationary; whatever is beautiful is also in some way ugly. Only the Idea of Beauty neither waxes nor wanes, is not beautiful in one part and ugly in another, nor beautiful at one time and ugly at another, nor beautiful in relation to one thing and ugly in relation to another."[Kenny, Sir Anthony *An Illustrated Brief History of Western Philosophy*. [Illustrated ed. ]. Malden, MA: Wiley-Blackwell, 2006.]

06. "For when there is the opposite perception at the same time, the mind is called to reﬂection; in these cases perception ‘shows33 one thing no more than its opposite’. 29 Burnyeat (2000), 55, is surely right to suggest that whether a given expression is metaphorical in these passages of the Republic may well be a matter of perspective, in the sense that something may look metaphorical when viewed from an early stage in one’s philosophical (mathematical) education, but turn out to be literal when viewed from a more advanced stage of philosophical understanding."[McCabe, Mary Margaret *Platonic Conversations*. Hardcover. Oxford University Press, USA, 2015.]

07. "You may accordingly apply the form of man to matter, the form of iron to matter, and so on, and call it predication. But how can you express this in ordinary language?It can hardly be done. Ordinary language has not been developed to meet this contingency. The best you can do, perhaps, is to say that matter is humanized, equinized, lapidified, and so on, as it takes on forms like those of man, horse, and stone. To say that matter is human, equine, lapideous, or that it is a man, a horse, a stone, may be true enough in this context; but with all its linguistic oddity the way of speaking hardly brings out the full import of the situation."[Owens, Joseph, and John R. Catan *Aristotle, the collected papers of Joseph Owens*. SUNY Press, 1981.]

08. "86 I follow Whiting’s preference for the MS here. Reading hê lusis ouk estin, with Walzer/Mingay, the passage needs to say something about where the solution fails; it is not clear just how that would work at this stage in the discussion. 87 Here the sequence of thought ﬁts well with my suggestion, above, that there are two versions of the aporia in the chapter. 88 Or, on a different text, ‘anything alien rather than’. 358 WITH MIRRORS OR WITHOUT ?This kind of actualizing must include, it seems, perceiving ourselves as perceiving."[McCabe, Mary Margaret *Platonic Conversations*. Hardcover. Oxford University Press, USA, 2015.]

09. "16. See the fine statement of this by Stephen Brown, S. J. , The World of Imagery (London, 1927), pp. 17-18: "In its most characteristic and distinctive form it [the metaphorical mode of intelligence] is a using of material objects as images of immaterial, spiritual things. It is founded on the existence of analogies and correspondences between the various objects or phenomena of nature, and between these again and human lifeman's emotional, moral, and intellectual nature, between matter and mind. Imagery is a witness to the harmony of mind and matter, to the unity of all creation, and thus to the oneness of its author. ""[Clarke, William Norris, and Gerald A. McCool *The Universe as journey: conversations with W. Norris Clarke, S.J.*. Fordham University Press, 1988.]

10. "Perhaps this is why Bergson denies the intersensory continuum, wherein high-pitched sounds are similar to bright colors. It is not enough that one pay attention to experience; one must also have some idea where to pay attention and what to look for when one does so (BA, 369–7). 8 Further, if one relies exclusively on empirical data, one runs up against the same problem faced by Hume in the ﬁrst section of the Treatise: even though one has never seen a particular shade of blue, one can, given other shades of blue on either side of it on a spectrum of color, conceptually supply the missing shade."[Dombrowski, Daniel A. *Divine Beauty: The Aesthetics of Charles Hartshorne*. Vanderbilt University Press, 2004.]

11. "That is, in this view one does not ﬁrst sense a color and then later add feelings or associations (whether individual or cultural) to the sensation. Rather, the sensation of color itself involves feeling tones and emotional affect, as Langer also shows. 10 Feelings inhere in, or are fused with, color sensations rather than tag along after the fact (PP, 73–75). It must be admitted that in one work of art (say a Raphael painting) red may seem rich and digniﬁed, whereas in another it may seem rude and annoying."[Dombrowski, Daniel A. *Divine Beauty: The Aesthetics of Charles Hartshorne*. Vanderbilt University Press, 2004.]

12. "From that viewpoint, required here, the fully specific nature has the aspect of matter. But the specific nature of the iron or gold or bronze does not accompany it when it is impressed upon the wax. It is received without the specific nature of the agent. That would refine considerably the sense intended in the expression "receiving . . . without the matter. "This understanding of sensation as involving reception "without the matter" might suggest that the expression in De Anima II 12, bears rather on the doctrine of proper and common sensibles, shortly to follow in De Anima III, than on cognition in general."[Owens, Joseph, and John R. Catan *Aristotle, the collected papers of Joseph Owens*. SUNY Press, 1981.]

13. "This begins with a principle: ‘the beautifuls are beautiful by virtue of the beautiful’. This simple-minded answer exempliﬁes how causal explanation should be constrained (neither should opposites explain the same thing, nor should the same thing explain opposites) and how it should be ampliﬁed (there is such a thing as ‘the beautiful’ which is not one of the things it explains). But it falls short, we might think, of explanation, falls short of giving us something more than this austere formula, and tells us nothing either about teleology or about more constructive ways of accounting for why what happens, happens."[McCabe, Mary Margaret *Platonic Conversations*. Hardcover. Oxford University Press, USA, 2015.]

14. "One of the Shinto texts says that the processes of nature cannot be evil. Every natural impulse is not to be corrected but to be sublimated, to be beautified. There is a glorious interest in the beauty of nature and cooperation with nature, so that in some of those gardens you don't know where nature begins and art ends -- this was a tremendous experience. MOYERS: But, Joe, Tokyo today refutes that ideal in such flagrant ways. Tokyo is a city where nature has virtually disappeared, except as contained in small gardens that are still cherished by some of the people."[Campbell, Joseph, and Bill Moyers *The Power of Myth*. Anchor, 1991.]

15. "Julius Guttman's introduction, p. x). "We find," it is said there, " that Scripture employs the word 'create' for the being of things that have no form or that are of no use to the world, whereas 'form' and ' make' are used for the being of things that have a form and are of use to the inhabitants of the world. Hence i t is written [lsa. 45:7]: 'I form the light and create darkness, I make weal and create woe. 'For light, which has form and reality, the term employed is 'formation,' for darkness, which has neither form nor reality but which designates the absence of the form of light and its privation, it says 'creation. '"[Scholem, Gershom Gerhard, and Allan Arkush *Origins of the Kabbalah*. Princeton University Press, 1991.]