Created: 2025-12-13 12:59:26
Origin: suggested
Selected: In the area of Architecture the fundamental object of study, i. e. architecture, is sometimes described as: “1) the relations between materials in the first sense, and 2) as the relation between these materials and humans in the second sense” (Oosterhuist, 2007). In a similar way we could thus introduce this third perspective in which we address interaction as 3) a phenomena arising from the orchestration of computational resources in action, in which we’re interested in this orchestration of different computational materials in the first sense as to understand how one such orchestration forms a basis for interaction.[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

--- Context List ---
01. "In the area of Architecture the fundamental object of study, i. e. architecture, is sometimes described as: “1) the relations between materials in the first sense, and 2) as the relation between these materials and humans in the second sense” (Oosterhuist, 2007). In a similar way we could thus introduce this third perspective in which we address interaction as 3) a phenomena arising from the orchestration of computational resources in action, in which we’re interested in this orchestration of different computational materials in the first sense as to understand how one such orchestration forms a basis for interaction."[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

02. "So, contrary to this, I suggest an interact architecture agenda that is open for technological explorations while at the same time making use of classical concepts from architecture in new innovative texturation processes of information technologies in physical spaces. fRoM ARchiTecTuRes To enviRonMenTs Not only do we need to relate these new textures available to the concept of buildings, and not only can we rely on architectural thinking when introducing digital elements and technologies in physical spaces."[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

03. "To grasp this movement the notion of texture is introduced to enable us to address new computational materials where the digital make use of the properties of physical materials to manifest instances for interaction, and where the physical is bent from static spatial form to new dynamic temporal forms through the power of the computational. In this chapter, this discovery and articulation of textures is highlighted and further outlined in terms of its implications for design of meaningful environments, and for the reading and rewriting of textures enabled and situated in-between the physical and the digital."[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

04. "Critics of Patrik Schumacher’s Parametricism still identify similar  inconsistencies, as this new movement is presented both as a new aesthetic  language—Parametricism as a style, a Morettian expression of new societal  problems—and a new method for design and research. The tension here lies in  the fact that parametric modeling is not inherently biased toward any particular  group of forms: both a curvaceous and a rectilinear design can be generated  parametrically and yet most of the parametric production concentrates on  organic forms (Frazer 2016, pp."[INPUT: Bottazzi - 2020 - Digital architecture beyond computers fragments of a cultural history of computational design.pdf]

05. "No system has really succeeded in achieving universal application, although the fundamental principles of modular construction and systems co-ordination have 70 4. 41 become integrated into general design practice. Perhaps this is because architects tend to prefer designing new systems rather than designing with systems. At the outset of the new town of Milton Keynes, in Bedfordshire, much careful thinking was put into the design for a standard Advanced Factory Unit versatile enough to house almost any small industrial process."[(Auth.), Chris Wilkinson *Supersheds. The Architecture of Long-Span, Large-Volume Buildings*. Butterworth Architecture, 1991.]

06. "One school proposes patterns as a retrospectively-derived resource to capture recurring design problems, grounded in existing studies of work and associated design solutions. These patterns then become a shared language for design (Erickson, 2000). Another school proposes an adapted patterns framework where the emphasis is on providing a descriptive framework for presenting findings; a structured template sensitises researchers/ethnographers to the needs of design and helps them structure their findings accordingly (Crabtree et al."[(auth.), Geraldine Fitzpatrick *The Locales Framework: Understanding and Designing for Wicked Problems*. Springer Netherlands, 2003.]

07. "6 ﻿Digital Architecture Beyond Computers This short foray into the evolution of basic programming language for  computers shows how computers came to exploit disparate notions which  eventually converged; since the Jacquard’s loom, computation has been  consisting of a hardware (computing mechanism) and a software (set of  instructions), which will be briefly discussed here. Data and information Information is one of the key words of the twentieth century. Its relevance has  increased exponentially not only through the proliferation of new media, but also  through the parallel interest expressed by more established disciplines, such  as philosophy and ethics."[INPUT: Bottazzi - 2020 - Digital architecture beyond computers fragments of a cultural history of computational design.pdf]

08. "While I worked on many special problems, I was aware that this ultimate aim could not possibly be reached by one individual, but I took it as my task to give at least an outline of the total construction and to show by partial solutions the nature of the method to be applied. A change in the approach occurred when I recognized, under the inﬂuence of the Gestalt psychology of Wertheimer and Köhler that the customary method of analyzing material things into separate sense-data was inadequate—that an instantaneous visual ﬁeld and perhaps even an instantaneous total experience is given as a unit, while the allegedly simple sense-data are the result of a process of abstraction."[Rorty, Amélie Oksenberg *The Many Faces of Philosophy: Reflections from Plato to Arendt*. Oxford University Press, USA, 2003.]

09. "(1987). A New Theory oJ Urban Design. Oxford University Press, New York. Anderson, B. , Button, G. , and Sharrock, W. (1993). Supporting the design process within an organisational context. In Proceedings oJ the Third European ConJerence on ComputerSupported Cooperative Work, pages 47-59, Milan, Italy. Anderson, R. I. (1994). Representations and requiremetns: The value of ethnography in system design. Human-Computer Interaction, 9(2):151-182. Baecker, R. M. (1993). Media spaces."[(auth.), Geraldine Fitzpatrick *The Locales Framework: Understanding and Designing for Wicked Problems*. Springer Netherlands, 2003.]

10. "Alongside the description/depiction distinction, we find in Goodman distinctions between names and descriptions, on one hand, and pictures on the other, and again between paragraphs and pictures, or predicates and pictures. The distinction between depiction and representation, developed in particular by Peacocke, introduces a supplementary distinction, internal to the act of perception, between a first level that derives from a pure perception and a second level that requires the mastery of a symbolic system."[Cassin, Barbara, Emily Apter, Jacques Lezra, and Michael Wood *Dictionary of Untranslatables: A Philosophical Lexicon*. Princeton University Press, 2014.]

11. " Parametrics﻿ 91 of these architectures there is a design methodology which articulated spaces  through the attribution and variation of parameters to basic geometries as well  as established relational links between different forms so that the variation in one  of these forms would result in a subsequent variation in all the other geometries  related to it. It is in these terms that in baroque architecture we observe the  potential of parametric articulation as a driver for design: this manifested in a new  sense of wholeness often based on complex relations between different forms  subjected to geometrical transformation, if not actual formal metamorphosis."[INPUT: Bottazzi - 2020 - Digital architecture beyond computers fragments of a cultural history of computational design.pdf]

12. "In today’s varied context it could not be proposed as the only valid system for future design, but as one worth reinvestigating, especially since others have demonstrably failed. In particular, other approaches to the re-establishment of a regional identity, operating within the paradigm of Modernism, have delivered only new forms of pastiche. Vastu vidya would be more successful in meeting this need, because of its power to function as a method of communication between architects and users."[Sachdev, Vibhuti, and Giles Tillotson *Building Jaipur: The Making of an Indian City*. 2004.]

13. "The role of the lexicon as the repository of specific information diverges considerably among different approaches. The lexical component, whether limited to the strictly idiosyncratic or extended in its role to much of partial productivity and compositionality, is a constant of every linguistic design (Jackendoff 1997; Prince 1997). Its functioning depends on linguistic symbolization, i. e. the association between some notion and an articulated sound chain of some kind. In the first place, the lexicon provides access to more narrowly constituted types of signs: words (or even sub-words, morphemes) with core associations between phonological content and semantic force."[Wanner, Dieter *The Power of Analogy: An Essay on Historical Linguistics*. Mouton de Gruyter, 2006.]

14. "However, now that Cadence Design Systems' VeriloglM language, for example, is taken as input by the Synopsys suite of synthesis tools, and is used to generate logic designs, one might view the behavioral modeling language as performing a function similar to that of a procedural design language. Clearly each application of a language within a design system has specific requirements, not only in terms of evaluation model, but also in terms of expressive requirements. This explains the existence of a range of different languages within a single CAD system."[Barnes, Timothy J., David Harrison, A. Richard Newton, and Rick L. Spickelmier (auth.) *Electronic CAD Frameworks*. Springer US, 1992.]

15. "However, in this author's opinion, the deep insight given by the Bohm-out and approximation theorems hasn't yet been fully exploited for the investigation of semantic properties of (functional) programming languages. One should consider, say, that even from the point of view of Model Theory, an highly developed topic in Logic, such a surprising connection, as established in A-calculus between theories and mathematical models, may be regarded as an original and technically deep achievement, which is surely worth applying more extensively."[(auth.), José Luis Balcázar, M. P. Chytil, and V. Koubek (eds.) *Mathematical Foundations of Computer Science 1984: Proceedings, 11th Symposium Praha, Czechoslovakia September 3–7, 1984*. Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg, 1984.]