Created: 2025-12-23 01:53:41
Origin: searched
Selected: There is a certain playful kind of poetic form in such an equation: all to say, by way of experiential methodology and extended metaphor, that context determines text, as wave pattern shapes particle in position. A given minim of any joke is meaningless out of sequential context, or so Mary Douglas extends Freud to show the cultural continuum of a given joke. 25. Vine Deloria, Jr. , letter to author, 16 June 1988. 26. See Friedrich Nietzsche, The Gay Science: With a Prelude in Rhymes and an Appendix of Songs, trans.[Lincoln, Kenneth *Indi'n Humor: Bicultural Play in Native America*. 1993.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Except for a handful of linguistic primitives, all word meaning relies on examples because we can relate them to experience in memory or imagination. Irony is an especially complex concept in language; in desperation dictionaries try to convey its meaning by using a variety of examples. As this book demonstrates, an exploration of irony is very rich; exhibiting so many forms that it becomes a probe into the human social and cultural condition. Robbie Burns expressed it in a way that we cannot forget: The best-laid schemes o’ mice an ‘men Gang aft agley, An’lea’e us nought but grief an’ pain, For promis’d joy!"[Szenberg, Michael, and Lall Ramrattan (auth.) *Economic Ironies Throughout History: Applied Philosophical Insights for Modern Life*. Palgrave Macmillan US, 2014.]

02. "The reign established on the truth of the image cannot, in any way, be a reign of ontological truth. Truth is an image: t~s: is no image of t r u t h . '· { : An economy of resemblance can only be based on the co~pt of a nonmirnetic invisibility of similitude. This does not mean that it is an empty concept; rather, it is a concept of the image that requires an emptiness at the heart of visibility. Real resemblances are only ever relative to imaginary similitude and never its duplicate."[Mondzain, Marie-Jose *Image, Icon, Economy: The Byzantine Origins of the Contemporary Imaginary (Cultural Memory in the Present)*. 2004.]

03. "22 Words are acoustical signs for concepts; concepts, however, are more or less definite image signs for often recurring and associated sensations, for groups of sensations. To understand one another, it is not enough that one use the same words; one also has to use the same words for the same species of inner experiences; in the end one has to have one’s experience in common. Therefore the human beings of one people understand one another better than those belonging to different peoples even if they employ the same language; or rather when human beings have long lived together under similar conditions (of climate, soil, danger, needs, and work), what results23 from this is people who “understand24 one another”—a people."[Nietzsche, Friedrich *Beyond Good & Evil*. Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group, 2010.]

04. "This is what happens with Montaigne, whose sole aim is to say what he means to say and who achieves this, cost what it may, by twisting the phrase in his own way. To this way of twisting the phrase the glossaries prefer a vacuousness as long as it flows easily. This is not to condemn the exceptional use of a rare word, provided that it comes in its proper place and enhances the economy of the rest. My advice, therefore, is to admit it if it does not sparkle too brightly. Words should not flow: they are set in."[Cocteau, Jean, Elizabeth Sprigge, and Geoffrey O'Brien *The Difficulty of Being*. Melville House, 2013.]

05. " 150 DOMESTICATING SYMBOLS — Metalithikum II universal meta-language. 78 Hermann Weyl has famously captured these  sentiments in statement : “In these days the angel of topology and the  devil of abstract algebra fight for the soul of each individual mathematical domain. ”79 Despite this drastic statement, Weyl was certainly  an intellectual who would have readily agreed in not condemning and  judging Leibniz’s dream of a characteristica universalis too hastily. A  rather singular voice between the two predominant camps at the time  with regard to the role of algebra for reasoning (the intuitionists and  the formalists), Weyl was eager to make explicit exactly the very same  distinction that is crucial with regard to Leibniz as well : that the universal can be systematized alphabetically both in the operative terms of  method and characteristics, and also in descriptive terms of conceptual  form and numerical bodies of rules. 80 For him, the placement of intuition  (as the natural faculty for insight) could not be decided simply in terms  of “naturally given” versus “intellectually achieved. ” Rather, together  they are irresolvable :  In the Preface to Dedekind (1888) we read that “In science, whatever is provable must not be believed without proof. ” This remark  is certainly characteristic of the way most mathematicians think."[INPUT: Hovestadt and Bühlmann - 2014 - Domesticating symbols metalithikum. II.pdf]

06. "The symbolic, as such untranslatable, while translating itself is hereby however not completely transferred into the technical. It differentiates itself in  relation to itself, i. e. it “specifies” itself in an operative model that remains  symbolic-referential. The relation of the place-value-like arrangement of the  symbolic denies itself to both itself and any definite model of its own function. This way only it becomes legible as the primary origin which enables  the origin of communication technology to be determined, i. e."[INPUT: Hovestadt and Bühlmann - 2014 - Domesticating symbols metalithikum. II.pdf]

07. "“Under-represented,” in the sense that in its very nature as representation, as figurative language, literature is never really “there” or fully present, but is always mediated action, action estranged by the linguistic medium 14 LANGUAGE, RHETORIC, DECONSTRUCTION in which it has its existence. I realize that to say this is to say something as selfevident as that fiction is not history and words are not things; indeed, I may well be saying only that. The discovery that language is a formal, self-contained system of arbitrary signs, or that literature is a system based upon the prior system of language—a representation, that is, of the reality of language rather than of a language of “reality”—these characteristically “modern” discoveries in no way negate the power of the sign to refer, to constitute a world of reference."[Hartman, Geoffrey H., and Patricia A Parker *Shakespeare and the Question of Theory*. New edition. 1986.]

08. "There is a certain playful kind of poetic form in such an equation: all to say, by way of experiential methodology and extended metaphor, that context determines text, as wave pattern shapes particle in position. A given minim of any joke is meaningless out of sequential context, or so Mary Douglas extends Freud to show the cultural continuum of a given joke. 25. Vine Deloria, Jr. , letter to author, 16 June 1988. 26. See Friedrich Nietzsche, The Gay Science: With a Prelude in Rhymes and an Appendix of Songs, trans."[Lincoln, Kenneth *Indi'n Humor: Bicultural Play in Native America*. 1993.]

09. "Visibilityhastaken theplace ofthe image, to the point of breaking the mirror in which those who were refused a gaze dared to look at themselves. The mirror is nothing more than a mimetic agent. Responsible for resemblance, it also kills similitude. In this way, resemblance becomes, paradoxically, a weapon of discrimination: not bearing resemblance can be a crime, and , consensual thought comes to haunt uniform bodies. Thus has the imaginal economy completely sunk beneath the industry of visibilities."[Mondzain, Marie-Jose *Image, Icon, Economy: The Byzantine Origins of the Contemporary Imaginary (Cultural Memory in the Present)*. 2004.]

10. "On the Spiritualin Art is the major manifesto of this purely spiritual and sacred imprint. The trace of the spirit prevails over that of the hand. A supplementary proof that corroborates this fiction of photography as productive of an iconic effect without a gesture is the absence of any drawing. The photographic impression is nongraphic, or as might be said, agraphic, just as we say aphasic. In a certain way, it concerns the same thing. ,The impression leaves a stain rather than makes a line. The shroud's image bears the magic of something that has form without an outline."[Mondzain, Marie-Jose *Image, Icon, Economy: The Byzantine Origins of the Contemporary Imaginary (Cultural Memory in the Present)*. 2004.]

11. "But this view of transformation is more geometrical than might be desirable. Our purpose often will not be to learn how one strip could be generated from another by the application of translation rules, but rather how two similar strips were both generated from a common model and differ from each other in certain systematic ways. One might find it reasonable to speak of two performances of a play given by the same company on two successive nights, or two readings of the same part given by two different actors, or two varieties of American speech-male and female-and feel it awkward to speak of one version being a keying of another."[Goffman, Erving *Frame Analysis. An Essay on the Organization of Experience*. Northeastern University Press, 1986.]

12. "In any case, we're dealing with an equivalent sound-pattern: no sound in French is exactly the same as a sound in English. The notion of equivalency is essential. The overarching goal of this translation is to produce an English text that creates an effect equivalent to that created by the original. If a Michaux poem is an incantation, it should have an incantatory effect in English; if it has a savage, ironic feel to it, that's the way it should feel in our language. Of course these principles often come into conflict with each other."[Michaux, Henri *Darkness Moves: An Henri Michaux Anthology, 1927-1984*. University of California Press, 1997.]

13. "In such cases often a short etymological explanation is added in order to make users aware of the fact. Note that this did not affect the placing of these characters within the CCD, as 爿 and 黑 are to be considered as radicals and 犬 as series header. It is also interesting to note that in standard Chinese dictionaries 爿 and 黑 also function as radicals in respect to these characters. d) two meaning elements In quite a number of cases neither part indicates the sound, but the character is a compound ideograph; in other words, it has two meaning elements."[Van Amstel, Adrian *Chinese Character Dictionary: A New Approach to Arranging, Explaining and Looking Up Chinese Characters*. Paperback. Createspace Independent Publishing Platform, 2016.]

14. "By describing the relationship between shamans and their auxiliary spirits, represented by carved wooden anthropomorphic figures, it explores the link between art and ontology. The main argument is that by inquiring into the visual system of a society, into the way people perceive the world and make sense of it in their daily life, we can gain better insight into their ideas about the social, the cosmological, and the person. This has two main implications: first, visual art is treated in this work more as a category of experience, a way of knowing, than as an aesthetic category."[Fortis, Paolo *Kuna Art and Shamanism: An Ethnographic Approach*. University of Texas Press, 2013.]

15. "When this activity is not actually occurring but only serving as a model for a keying, then one can think of the strip that results as exhibiting one transformation and two layers or laminations-the modeled after and the modeled, the copied and the copy-and can see the outer layer, the rim of the frame, as establishing the status in reality of the activity. Together these two layers-untransformed events and 156 STRUCTURAL ISSUES IN FABRICATIONS 157 their keyings-constitute a relatively simple '1ayering," one with two layers, not many: in a word, a layering that is shallow, not deep."[Goffman, Erving *Frame Analysis. An Essay on the Organization of Experience*. Northeastern University Press, 1986.]