Created: 2025-12-18 23:23:32
Origin: searched
Selected: (1988, 300-01) Using the work of Mathew Jones, I have shown how a single art work can function as a determinable multiplicity. The dynamic territories that we find in his work draw together the pre-individual singularities of percepts and affects such that new subjectivities and existential territories might individuate themselves. The singularities provide an intensive consistency of differences in which new formations crystallize.[(ed.), Gary Genosko *Deleuze and Guattari: Critical Assessments of Leading Philosophers. Volume II: Guattari*. Routledge, 2001.]

--- Context List ---
01. "(1988, 300-01) Using the work of Mathew Jones, I have shown how a single art work can function as a determinable multiplicity. The dynamic territories that we find in his work draw together the pre-individual singularities of percepts and affects such that new subjectivities and existential territories might individuate themselves. The singularities provide an intensive consistency of differences in which new formations crystallize."[(ed.), Gary Genosko *Deleuze and Guattari: Critical Assessments of Leading Philosophers. Volume II: Guattari*. Routledge, 2001.]

02. "Discontinuity, retrojection, and rarity are important watchwords in my elegy for theory. The second half of the book narrows the historical focus to the twentieth century, where the history of cinema as an art form and the history of thought about cinema emerge alongside a new discourse of the human sciences. I characterize this thought as three historically distinct yet often overlap- xv In Place of Beginning ping discursive modalities: the aesthetic discourse, the discourse of structure or signification, and the discourse of ideology or culture."[Rodowick, D. N. *Elegy for Theory*. Harvard University Press, 2014.]

03. "(Deleuze and Guattari, 1987: 300–301) Using the work of Mathew Jones, I have shown how a single art work can function as a determinable multiplicity. The dynamic territories that we find in his work draw together the pre-individual singularities of percepts and affects such that new subjectivities and existential territories might individuate themselves. The singularities provide an intensive consistency of differences in which new formations crystallize. We could say that the singularities precede a concept of activist art and a concept of gay politics, coming together in a spatio-temporal dynamic that allows these practices to be individuated in ‘new’ or aberrant ways."[Massumi, Brian *A Shock to Thought: Expressions After Deleuze and Guattari (Philosophy & Cultural Studies)*. 2002.]

04. "C')  ,-+  C  -,  CD  c. . . .  C  :,  -<  cu  (/)  :T  (0 cu  3  LIXIUllXi  New Edition  Another Scale  of Architecture  LIXILtllli  "[INPUT: 2019 - Junya Ishigami - Another Scale Of Architecture.pdf]

05. "It shows how mechanisms that connect (ancient and new) buildings and the environment should be well-mastered, and steer our behaviour in future choices, especially rethinking new uses of built heritage. As well as in structural interventions, new arrangements shouldn’t obliterate the past lives, material tracks and marks on the architectural legacy. Undeniably, by now, history is the history of material culture. History of the objects: built, produced, and then wanted of refused, preserved, lost or discarded."[Manfredi, Carlo *Addressing the Climate in Modern Age's Construction History: Between Architecture and Building Services Engineering*. Springer International Publishing, 2019.]

06. "For Hayles, the project “create[s] new sensory, physical, and metaphysical relationships between user and database” (Writing Machines 102). These relationships highlight more than the physicality of location. They make the materiality as well as the virtuality of the medial ecology show up. A media-specific analysis, then, would set out the specific elements in the particular ecology and examine the “interplay between form, content, and medium” (Writing Machines 31) that they make possible."[Hawk, Byron, David M. Rieder, and Ollie Oviedo *Small Tech: The Culture of Digital Tools*. Univ Of Minnesota Press, 2008.]

07. "The exposition will take up in turn the following constitutive features of the postmodern: a new depthlessness, which finds its prolongation both in contemporary “theory” and in a whole new culture of the image or the simulacrum; a consequent weakening of historicity, both in our relationship to public History and in the new forms of our private temporality, whose “schizophrenic” structure (following Lacan) will determine new types of syntax or syntagmatic relationships in the more temporal arts; a whole new type of emotional ground tone— what I will call “intensities”— which can best be grasped by a return to older theories of the sublime; the deep constitutive relationships of all this to a whole new technology, which is itself a figure for a whole new economic world system; and, after a brief account of postmodernist mutations in the lived experience of built space itself, some reflections on the mission of political art in the bewildering new world space of late or multinational capital."[Jameson, Fredric *Postmodernism: Or, the Cultural Logic of Late Capitalism*. Verso Books, 1992.]

08. "Therefore, we can recognize a companion view of technology as the vehicle which brings the universal-range in to human-range by representing entities at different scales, comprehensible at our specific human level. in addition to the tension created by the dissonance between the disparate regions of perception and action, there is also a growing dissociation between activity and experience. For example, if a human operator (or more specifically a supervisory controller) interacts with a system via technically aided perceptions (displays) using technically aided actions (valves etc."[Hancock, Peter A. *Mind, machine and morality : toward a philosophy of human-technology symbiosis*. New edition. CRC Press, 2009.]

09. "The question of esthetic cognition can only be answered by esthetic history. Insofar as the ethical systems through which human culture has evolved give rise to new forms of resentment, they require new means to accomplish its deferral; in particular, they require new esthetics. The five esthetics to be discussed in the following chap¬ ters fall into two broader groups: traditional—classical and neo¬ classical; and modem—romantic, modernist, and postmodernist. This list is not indefinitely extensible."[Gans, Eric *ORIGINARY THINKING - Elements of Generative Anthropology*. Stanford University Press, 1993.]

10. "However, as one might expect from a poststructuralist approach, the question itself is nested in a web of other arguments and, indeed, prognoses, which can, at times, seem oblique, obscure and very fluid. In order to try to illuminate the connections between Deleuze and Guattari’s work and thinking about organization(s), therefore, we have chosen not to attempt the daunting, and probably impossible, task of giving a linear-logical synopsis of their work. Indeed, no commentator on their work seeks to do this, not least because it would be contrary to the very spirit of that work (again, more on this later)."[Linstead, Stephen Andrew *Organization Theory and Postmodern Thought*. Sage Publications Ltd, 2003.]

11. "Returning for the last time to the figure of the book, these analyses, which draw attention to the object as an unstable encounter, work to open up a sensibility to dynamics that would conventionally escape a descriptive account of a book as representational form. The temporal quality of, for example, the torpidity of boredom or the thrill of a new idea would be seen to inhere neither in the content of the text nor in the mind of the person reading the book but might rather be found in what Deleuze might call the 'becoming' of the book/reader assemblage."[Harvey, Penny, Eleanor Conlin Casella, Gillian Evans, Hannah Knox, Christine McLean, Elizabeth B. Silva, Nicholas Thoburn, and Kath Woodward *Objects and Materials: A Routledge Companion*. Routledge, 2013.]

12. "In both “Crushed under Sodium Lights” and “Stark, North of Gainsboro,” a “homegrown” aleatory function is used to help generate innovative interactions along postalphabetic dimensions of writing that include the spatial, visual, and kinetic. Compared to the hypertextual link, this interrelationality “after the voice” leads us to new levels of coordinated practices between text and code. In programming environments like Flash, the two species of writing will be coordinated in ever-changing ways, leading to new avenues of both cataloging and theorizing electronic textualities."[Hawk, Byron, David M. Rieder, and Ollie Oviedo *Small Tech: The Culture of Digital Tools*. Univ Of Minnesota Press, 2008.]

13. "History therefore could be transformed into a new form of understanding: as a theory, it would be a recapitulation and consummation of its past as well as the ground on which the new architecture would take shape. A second and even more curious assumption is that the new order could be based on formal principles situated outside history. How might it be possible to create a system which claimed to be self-referential, but which could at the same time provide a framework for historical criticism and design?"[Vesely, Dalibor *Architecture in the Age of Divided Representation: The Question of Creativity in the Shadow of Production*. The MIT Press, 2004.]

14. "While I would still argue that the ‘classical theatre’ tendency is still a common one amongst critics and practitioners this has not been the only tendency and I would not like to suggest that it has been. I am not alone, of course, in favouring the performative tendency, that which investigates the new rather than seeking to re-present the old. Critics such as Gregory Ulmer (1989), Sandy Stone (1995) and Espen Aarseth (1994) have all moved their discussions of new media technologies in this direction."[Massumi, Brian *A Shock to Thought: Expressions After Deleuze and Guattari (Philosophy & Cultural Studies)*. 2002.]

15. "This extended demonstration of New Historicist form (or “method”) has the additional interest for us of being staged without the scaffolding of traditional or conventional “themes,” such as the “self” in Greenblatt’s pioneering work (even though the occasional gesture toward a thematics of “writing,” as in the introduction, seems designed misleadingly to reassure the reader that we are embarked on a more familiar enterprise). Three distinct rhythms seem to course unevenly through this book, attention to any one of which backgrounds the others and produces a rather different reading."[Jameson, Fredric *Postmodernism: Or, the Cultural Logic of Late Capitalism*. Verso Books, 1992.]