Created: 2025-11-14 23:40:33
Origin: searched
Selected: Bay side and ocean side: two very different experiences for me from the very beginning. Later on, rereading Proust, I would almost think of them as Marcel had thought of two paths he'd taken as a child in Combray. Not that these cotes were socially distinct as the Guermantes Way had been from Swann's Way. No, rather I thought of them as being distinctive in two main ways, the first atmospheric, the second emotional. The bay side was fragrant, heavily wooded, nocturnal, obscure, somewhat bewildering, a place filled with unclarities of location, not to mention relationship.[Picano, Felice *A House on the Ocean, a House on the Bay (a memoir)*. Faber & Faber, 1998.]

--- Context List ---
01. "A hundred years ago, Flaubert1 in a letter to his mistress made the following remark: Comme l’on serait savant si l’on connaissait bien seulement cinq à six livres: “What a scholar one might be if one knew well only some half a dozen books. ” In reading, one should notice and fondle details. There is nothing wrong about the moonshine of generalization when it comes after the sunny trifles of the book have been lovingly collected. If one begins with a ready-made generalization, one begins at the wrong end and travels away from the book before one has started to understand it."[Goldthwaite, Melissa A., Joseph Bizup, John Brereton, Anne Fernald, and Linda Peterson *The Norton Reader: An Anthology of Nonfiction*. 14th edition. W. W. Norton & Company, 2015.]

02. "And again, while James saw it as a process of consciousness itself, fans indicated that fandom plays an important role. In particular, fandom shapes and maintains a continuous self by acting as a map or overlay with which to mark the passage of time and organize one's perception of oneself in it. This process is especially evident in both the activities of collecting and listening. I have already mentioned that one prominent type of collecting among fans is based on the fetish."[Cavicchi, Daniel *Tramps Like Us: Music and Meaning among Springsteen Fans*. 1998.]

03. "BIBLIOGRAPHY [1] R. Barro. Determinants of democracy. Journal of Political Economy, 107: 158–83, 1999. [2] D. E. Berlyne. Exploratory and epistemic behaviour. In S. Koch (ed. ),A Study of a Science II, McGraw-Hill, New York 1963 [1962]. [3] D. E. Berlyne. Aesthetic and psychobiology. Appleton-Century-Croft, New York 1971. [4] M. Bianchi. Collecting as a paradigm of consumption. Journal of Cultural Economics, 21: 275–289, 1997. [5] M. Bianchi. Novelty, preferences, and fashion: when goods are unsettling."[D'Agostino, Marcello (eds.) *New essays in logic and philosophy of science*. London: College Publivations, 2010.]

04. "21 Quoted in Sam Hunter and John Jacobus, Modern Art: Painting, Sculpture and Architecture, 3rd ed. (New York: Abrams, 1992), p. 326. 22 Frank Dietrich, ’Visual Intelligence: The First Decade of Computer Art (19651975)’, IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications (July 1985), p. 39. 23 Gene Youngblood, Expanded Cinema (New York: E. P. Dutton &  Co. Inc. , 1970), p. 210. 24 Peter Greenaway, The Stairs-Munich-Projection 2 (London: Merrell Holberton Publishers, 1995), p. 21. 25 Quoted in David Pascoe, Peter Greenaway: Museums and Moving Images (London: Reaktion Books, 1997), pp. 9-10. "[INPUT: Manovich - Database as Symbolic Form.pdf]

05. "Jay, Martin. 1973. The Dialectical Imagination: A History of the frankfurt School and the Institute of Social Research, 1923-1950. Boston: Little, Brown and Co. Jenkins, Henry. 1992. Textual Poachers: Television Fandom and Participatory Culture. New York: Routledge. Jensen, Joli. 1990. Redeeming Modernity. New York: Sage Publications. 1992. "Fandom as Pathology," in The Adoring Audience. Lisa Lewis, ed. New York: Routledge. 9-29. Jones, Delmos J. 1982, "Toward a Native Anthropology," in Anthropology for the Eighties."[Cavicchi, Daniel *Tramps Like Us: Music and Meaning among Springsteen Fans*. 1998.]

06. "This would be a viable interpretation only if Plato meant to use only one method here or thought that there was only one method. I have on the contrary shown that Socrates requires both the algorithmic method as well as the visual geometric method in order to make the full use of the dialectic towards recollection."[Magnani, Lorenzo *Model-based reasoning in science and technology : theoretical and cognitive issues*. Springer, 2013.]

07. "One might disambiguate the above situation by making the representation of the hate relation more specific. That is, one might introduce one node for Art-subject-hates-Ike-object, one node for Art-subject-hates-Neal-object, one node for Fred-subject-hates-Ike-object, and one node for Fred-subject-hates-Neal-object. Then when one wanted to represent that Art hates Ike and Fred hates Neal, one would activate only the first and the fourth of these nodes rather than the second and the third. But, as Fodor and Pylyshyn (1988, p. 24) so aptly put it, this proposal "requires rather a lot of microfeatures [i. e."[Von Eckardt, Barbara *What is cognitive science?*. MIT Press, 1995.]

08. "Of course, as you have guessed, the good reader is G o o d Re a d e r s and G ood Wri t ers 885 one who has imagination, memory, a dictionary, and some artistic sense—which sense I propose to develop in myself and in others whenever I have the chance. Incidentally, I use the word reader very loosely. Curiously enough, one cannot read a book: one can only reread it. A good reader, a major reader, an active and creative reader is a rereader. And I shall tell you why. When we read a book for the first time the very process of laboriously moving our eyes from left to right, line after line, page after page, this complicated physical work upon the book, the very process of learning in terms of space and time what the book is about, this stands between us and artistic appreciation."[Goldthwaite, Melissa A., Joseph Bizup, John Brereton, Anne Fernald, and Linda Peterson *The Norton Reader: An Anthology of Nonfiction*. 14th edition. W. W. Norton & Company, 2015.]

09. "Heidegger, M. (1971). On the way to language. New York: Harper &t Row. Heidegger, M. (1977). The question concerning technology and other essays. New York: Harper. Hillman, J. (1978). The therapeutic value of alchemical language. Dragonflies, pp. 3342. Hofstadter, D. (1979). Glidel, Escher, Bach: An eternal golden braid. New York: Basic Books. Humphrey, G. (1951). Thinking. New York: Methuen. Hunt, H. T. (1984). A cognitive psychology of mystical and altered-state experience. Perceptual and Motor Skills, 58, 467-513. Hunt, H. T. (1985). Cognition and states of consciousness: The necessity for empirical study of ordinary and nonordinary consciousness for contemporary cognitive psychology. Perceptual and Motor Skills, 60, 239-282. Hunt, H. T. (n. d. ). [Research protocol]. Unpublished data. Hunt, H. T. , &t Chefurka, C. M. (1976). A test of the psychedelic model of consciousness. Archives of General Psychiatry, 33, 867-896. Hunt, W. A. (1933). The meaning of pleasantness and unpleasantness."[(auth.), Herman Tennessen, and Leendert P. Mos (eds.) *Annals of Theoretical Psychology*. Springer US, 1986.]

10. "Although the notion of ‘objective reality’ has been abandoned by second-order cybernetics, one should not eliminate the notion of a partly independent ‘outside reality. ’ That would mean that Maturana’s ‘objectivity in parenthesis’ and the Multiverse it constructs must be seen as possible true aspects of the same rich reality. To forge such an alliance between perspectivism and realism, one would require a complex view of reality (as Prigogine suggests), perhaps even a hypercomplex view (as I would suggest)."[Brier, Soren *Cybersemiotics: Why Information Is Not Enough!*. 2nd. University of Toronto Press, 2008.]

11. "For this to be true, the subject must have experience of contexts differing systematically one from another, e. g. , contexts in which some type of change in one element is constantly accompanied by a constant type of change in another element. These cases c:~ be spread out on a. lattice of possibilities, accordIng. to which pa,ir of elements the subject sees as interrelated. There are only five elements (conditioned stimulus, conditioned response, reward or punishment, and two time intervals), but any pair of these."[Bateson, Gregory *Steps to an Ecology of Mind*. Ballantine Books, 1977.]

12. "One might show that one’s technique reliably registers reliable artifacts known to be produced under aberrant causal conditions. One might rely on a theoretical understanding of the mechanism by which the detection technique works. One might check the results of one’s technique against another technique that relies on causally independent mechanisms (see Franklin 2009). In each of these cases, one relies on knowledge about the mechanisms involved in the system and in the detection technique to argue that the methods in question provide an adequate measure of E in these circumstances."[Hsiang-Ke Chao, Szu-Ting Chen, and Roberta L. Millstein *Mechanism and Causality in Biology and Economics*. Springer Netherlands : Imprint : Springer, 2013.]

13. "There is, however, an alternative intuition one might solicit. Instead of asking one's informants whether they judge that the content is, in fact, the same or different, one might ask them which of the two possibilities they would entertain. In other words, one might use the thought experiment to expose what sort of TCDs a cognitive scientist would seriously consider, as opposed to what sort of TCD he or she in fact accepts. PUNCH LINE 2 Used in the first way (that is, as a tool for revealing assumptions regarding how content is, in fact."[Von Eckardt, Barbara *What is cognitive science?*. MIT Press, 1995.]

14. "The notion of support outlined in this chapter was also construed as "doubly comparative," in van Fraassen's sense: for a given explanation one compares (often implicitly) an explanandum with its contrast class in terms of the support provided, and one also (perhaps only implicitly) compares rival explanations for that explanandum. (E6) The Ideal Explanatory Text Background Component. Following Railton, I accepted the notion of an "ideal" explanatory text from which specific explanations were selected."[Schaffner, Kenneth F. *Discovery and Explanation in Biology and Medicine (Science and Its Conceptual Foundations Series)*. University Of Chicago Press, 1994.]

15. "After you have completed any number of them, put the information together and review the results. 199 A R evolu tion i n U n der sta n di ng References Chapter One 1 H. R. Pagels, The Cosmic Code (New York: Simon & Schuster, 1982). 2 Dictionary of Science, New York: McGraw-Hill, 9th Edition, 2002. 3 Gregory Bateson, Mind & Nature. (New York: Dutton Publishers, 1979). 4 David Bohm, Wholeness & The Implicate Order (New Jersey: Prentice Hall, 1980). 5 P. Russell, The Global Brain. (New York: St. Martins Press, 1983)."[J., Robert, and PH.D. Flower *A Revolution in Understanding: Discovering Your Natural Intelligence (Decoding Potential)*. 2006.]