Created: 2025-11-14 23:36:45
Origin: suggested
Selected: For example, it permits a theory that treats two representations as distinct in contents simply because they have different histories. Our roster of current approaches to the problem of content determination, in fact, includes two such TCDs: Devitt's causal historical approach and Millikan's biological function approach. Naturalism also permits a theory that treats two representations as content-distinct simply because they belong to individuals who live in different language communities.[Von Eckardt, Barbara *What is cognitive science?*. MIT Press, 1995.]

--- Context List ---
01. "For example, it permits a theory that treats two representations as distinct in contents simply because they have different histories. Our roster of current approaches to the problem of content determination, in fact, includes two such TCDs: Devitt's causal historical approach and Millikan's biological function approach. Naturalism also permits a theory that treats two representations as content-distinct simply because they belong to individuals who live in different language communities."[Von Eckardt, Barbara *What is cognitive science?*. MIT Press, 1995.]

02. "The first statement of it was by Loar (1988). Loar introduced a distinction between social contents, which are individuated in line with the semantics of the subject's public language, and psychological contents, individuated in accordance with the subject's personal psychological profile. In certain cases, the two modes of individuation pull apart. According to Loar, Burge's characters present us with a choice between these two modes of individuation."[Preston, John *Thought and Language (Royal Institute of Philosophy Supplements; 42)*. Cambridge University Press, 1997.]

03. "A medium, thus, has two aspects: (a) the data types (which, themselves, may be unstructured or structured) used as its components, and (b) how these component data types are structured (that is, as a matrix, a linear list, a tree, etc. ). These two aspects, taken together, constitute what Kosslyn calls the "formatting" of the medium. Note, however, that it is quite natural to keep these two aspects distinct and, hence, to apply the format/organization distinction to media as well as to data structures (in Kosslyn's sense)."[Von Eckardt, Barbara *What is cognitive science?*. MIT Press, 1995.]

04. "But what if MRS has two kinds of content, as Fodor (1987) suggests: one whose ground respects the constraint and one whose ground does not respect the constraint?After all, Methodological Individualism* seems to make the most sense when applied to mental representations being invoked in causal explanations. But we might want to appeal to the contents of mental representations for other reasons. In any case, if there are these two kinds of content, then the first kind (Fodor's ''narrow content") can be determined in a way that makes it fully significant, and the second kind ("broad content") can be determined in a way that allows for the representation of natural-kind-term meaning. 25 And, as a consequence, we will get everything we want."[Von Eckardt, Barbara *What is cognitive science?*. MIT Press, 1995.]

05. "For Giere, the representational relationship between scientific accounts and reality is essentially conceived as a relationship between models and the world, rather than between statements and the world. Successful scientific representation is thus conceived as a successful fit between models and reality. 6 Kitcher (2002a) seems more conservative on the issue and maintains the appeal to some notion of truth to assess epistemic success, even for visual representations (Kitcher and Varzi 2000). But what these pluralists have in common is an acknowledgment of the role of pragmatic considerations in the assessment of representational success, since conformation or fit can be deemed successful only to certain degrees and in certain respects."[Ruphy, Stephanie *Scientific Pluralism Reconsidered: A New Approach to the (Dis)unity of Science*. University of Pittsburgh Press, 2017.]

06. "Suppose he has another conception, linked to Rep('orme') (French for 'elm'), which happens to contain all the same descriptive information as his conception of beech, and even contains a qualitatively identical perceptual prototype (cf. the situation described in Putnam 1981, pp. 18-19; but where Putnam puts a different gloss on it). Not only is it the case that Hilaire has access to two distinct public concepts, but he also has in his head two distinct conceptions linked to different Reps. The two conceptions stay separate because Hilaire takes 'hetre' and 'orme' to be names of different kinds of trees."[Preston, John *Thought and Language (Royal Institute of Philosophy Supplements; 42)*. Cambridge University Press, 1997.]

07. "We focus on the two models that I have worked on, which happen to be the two most fully developed ones at the time, the SKY model (Cohen 1995; Wainscoat et al. 1992) and the Besançon model (Robin and Crézé 1986; Robin et al. 2003). Three features of these models are directly relevant to our epistemological concern. First, the two models have roughly the same intended content (i. e. , again following Kitcher’s [2001, ch. 5] use of the terminology in the case of maps, the two models are supposed to represent the same type of entities and relations)."[Ruphy, Stephanie *Scientific Pluralism Reconsidered: A New Approach to the (Dis)unity of Science*. University of Pittsburgh Press, 2017.]

08. "For instance, the movie Sliding Doors interleaves two variants of a love story, following the fortunes of two instances of the same couple in two universes which initially differ only in one small detail. In a related genre, known as ‘alternative history’, one of the two stories need not be told explicitly because it is a part of our own history and is assumed to be known to the audience."[Deutsch, David *The Beginning of Infinity: Explanations That Transform the World*. Allen Lane, 2011.]

09. "One might show that one’s technique reliably registers reliable artifacts known to be produced under aberrant causal conditions. One might rely on a theoretical understanding of the mechanism by which the detection technique works. One might check the results of one’s technique against another technique that relies on causally independent mechanisms (see Franklin 2009). In each of these cases, one relies on knowledge about the mechanisms involved in the system and in the detection technique to argue that the methods in question provide an adequate measure of E in these circumstances."[Hsiang-Ke Chao, Szu-Ting Chen, and Roberta L. Millstein *Mechanism and Causality in Biology and Economics*. Springer Netherlands : Imprint : Springer, 2013.]

10. "And again, while James saw it as a process of consciousness itself, fans indicated that fandom plays an important role. In particular, fandom shapes and maintains a continuous self by acting as a map or overlay with which to mark the passage of time and organize one's perception of oneself in it. This process is especially evident in both the activities of collecting and listening. I have already mentioned that one prominent type of collecting among fans is based on the fetish."[Cavicchi, Daniel *Tramps Like Us: Music and Meaning among Springsteen Fans*. 1998.]

11. "It is a delicate process to establish a perceptual object or category, as Lakoff (1987) demonstrates in a perspective he calls ‘experiential cognitive semantics,’ which he bases on the internal realism described by Hilary Putnam (1992). I will analyse this perspective more thoroughly later. The opposition between the two paradigms has another important aspect."[Brier, Soren *Cybersemiotics: Why Information Is Not Enough!*. 2nd. University of Toronto Press, 2008.]

12. "Obviously, this inference is absurd for a number of reasons. I want to focus here on a rather subtle one, namely, that the same image relates to the two objects it supposedly represents in different ways. When we use the above image as a representation of a rabbit, we make certain kinds of idealisation."[Hsiang-Ke Chao, Szu-Ting Chen, and Roberta L. Millstein *Mechanism and Causality in Biology and Economics*. Springer Netherlands : Imprint : Springer, 2013.]

13. "One can direct one’s life along similar paths as those demonstrated by exemplars, mimicking routine actions in routine contexts, and one can compare one’s self against exemplified demonstrations as standards. In the comparison, one feels what it is like to differ from these examples, feeling the difference as the satisfaction or failure to meet exemplified standards. How well exemplars work applied to novel situations, however, is another problem, and one that we will come to as this paper closes. The space of academic philosophy offers the leisurely reflection necessary for ready analysis of possible situations and application of principle, where exemplars are not such efficient vehicles of knowledge. 5 This is clearly not the most efficient way to model morality, however, unless expecting everyone with moral aspirations to spend their days engaged in professional moral philosophy."[Magnani, Lorenzo *Model-based reasoning in science and technology : theoretical and cognitive issues*. Springer, 2013.]

14. "In one study, they asked 150 housewives in Palo Alto, California, if they would sacrifice two hours of their time: a research team of five or six people would come to their homes to classify the household products they used. It was, as anyone would agree, a fairly big ask—invasive and time-consuming both. It didn’t seem likely that many people would be willing to comply. Some of the women, however, had already been contacted once before."[Konnikova, Maria *The confidence game: why we fall for it .. every time*. Viking;Penguin Publishing Group, 2016.]

15. "The notion of support outlined in this chapter was also construed as "doubly comparative," in van Fraassen's sense: for a given explanation one compares (often implicitly) an explanandum with its contrast class in terms of the support provided, and one also (perhaps only implicitly) compares rival explanations for that explanandum. (E6) The Ideal Explanatory Text Background Component. Following Railton, I accepted the notion of an "ideal" explanatory text from which specific explanations were selected."[Schaffner, Kenneth F. *Discovery and Explanation in Biology and Medicine (Science and Its Conceptual Foundations Series)*. University Of Chicago Press, 1994.]