Created: 2025-11-08 12:36:17
Origin: searched
Selected: Thus, with regard to the economy of research resources, it may be more productive to spend more time on expanding the corpus of primary data rather than to use it for writing a descriptive grammar. In short, then, the difference between the basic and the extended formats as conceived of here is one between different formats or “styles” for the inclusion of analytical insights in a documentation. In the basic format, analyses are included in the form of scattered annotations and crossreferences between sessions (and, of course, indirectly also by the fact that for topics for which little or no data can be found in the recordings of communicative events, elicited primary data are included).[Himmelmann, Nikolaus P., Jost Gippert, and Ulrike Mosel *Essentials of Language Documentation (Trends in Linguistics. Studies and Monographs Tilsm)*. Mouton de Gruyter, 2006.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Thus, with regard to the economy of research resources, it may be more productive to spend more time on expanding the corpus of primary data rather than to use it for writing a descriptive grammar. In short, then, the difference between the basic and the extended formats as conceived of here is one between different formats or “styles” for the inclusion of analytical insights in a documentation. In the basic format, analyses are included in the form of scattered annotations and crossreferences between sessions (and, of course, indirectly also by the fact that for topics for which little or no data can be found in the recordings of communicative events, elicited primary data are included)."[Himmelmann, Nikolaus P., Jost Gippert, and Ulrike Mosel *Essentials of Language Documentation (Trends in Linguistics. Studies and Monographs Tilsm)*. Mouton de Gruyter, 2006.]

02. "6. Please refer to the appendix for further information on this program. 7. Note that linguistic interaction here includes interactions with native speakers of other varieties inasmuch as they are a common occurrence in the speech community which is being documented. 8. The following list takes an audio or video recording as its main example. Of course, the same type of metadata is needed for primary data gathered in a different way such as written fieldnotes or photos. 9. Note that the term cataloguing is used here in a somewhat broader sense than in Chapter 4 where it is used to refer to one particular subtype of metadata."[Himmelmann, Nikolaus P., Jost Gippert, and Ulrike Mosel *Essentials of Language Documentation (Trends in Linguistics. Studies and Monographs Tilsm)*. Mouton de Gruyter, 2006.]

03. "In this context, the following methodological framework has been put forward: Collecting primary data against which hypotheses are to be tested. Primary data involve all instances of language use, utterances that speakers of the languages in question produce. Establishing a comparability criterion based on perceived similarity of any kind."[Marmaridou, Sophia S. A. *Reviewing Linguistic Thought: Converging Trends in the 21st Century*. Mouton de Gruyter, 2005.]

04. "However, as with all other aspects of organizing a digital corpus of primary data, it remains to be seen and tested further whether this is indeed a necessary and useful procedure. 3. 1. 2. Apparatus Inasmuch as linguistic and metalinguistic interactions cover the range of basic interactional possibilities,7 a documentation which contains a comprehensive set of primary data for both types of interactions is logically complete with regard to the level of primary data. However, it is well known that a large corpus of primary data is of little use unless it is presented in a format which ensures accessibility for parties other than the ones participating in its compilation."[Himmelmann, Nikolaus P., Jost Gippert, and Ulrike Mosel *Essentials of Language Documentation (Trends in Linguistics. Studies and Monographs Tilsm)*. Mouton de Gruyter, 2006.]

05. "In many recent sign language corpus projects, the IMDI metadata database is being used, an already existing database which has been further developed in the context of the ECHO project at the Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics in Nijmegen (The Netherlands) (Crasborn/Hanke 2003; also see www. mpi. nl/IMDI/). This approach is being increasingly used in smaller research projects as well. A good example is presented in Costello, Fernández, and Landa (2008, 84⫺85): We video-record our informants in various situations and contexts, such as spontaneous conversations, controlled interviews and elicitation from stimulus material."[Pfau, Roland, Markus Steinbach, and Bencie Woll *Sign Language: An International Handbook*. Mouton De Gruyter, 2012.]

06. "278 Carter & Adolphs The participants were filmed face-on, in close proximity to the cameras in order to create high quality, high resolution images, but were filmed in such a way as to minimise the interference and invasiveness of the recording equipment, to make the participants feel at ease and comfortable in the environment and to allow for (relatively) natural, authentic communication. This data can be properly described as 'multi-modal', as the transcribed recordings provide three different modes of discourse, offering three separate streams of data for analysis: the audio, the visual and the textual."[Gerbig, Andrea, and Oliver Mason *Language, People, Numbers: Corpus Linguistics and Society (Language and Computers : Studies in Practical Linguistics)*. Rodopi, 2008.]

07. "Ground-Figure order in locative sentences, simultaneous constructions). 258 III. Syntax 5. Methodological issues: how data type impacts results Finally, it is important to consider the role that data collection plays in the context of studies of word order in sign languages (also see chapter 42). Initially, it might be useful to note that a range of different types of data was utilised and this may have implications for the findings. For example, Coerts (1994a, 66f) urges caution in the interpretation of her results on NGT because the data she analysed was based on a set of sentences elicited in isolation."[Pfau, Roland, Markus Steinbach, and Bencie Woll *Sign Language: An International Handbook*. Mouton De Gruyter, 2012.]

08. "Those with an interest in the anthropology of the senses will find chapters 8, 10 and 11 central. They may want to check the linguistic background on constructions of perception in §5. 6. In general, before traversing the thesis in a non-linear way I do recommend reading chapter 2 to build necessary common ground. The remainder of this introductory chapter describes the fieldwork setting, methods, sources of data, and community involvement. 1. 3 Fieldwork and data This study is based on data collected in Ghana during four field trips between 2007 and 2009: June-July-August 2007, February-March 2008, July-AugustSeptember 2008 and March-April 2009."[Mark., Dingemanse *The Meaning and Use of Ideophones in Siwu*. 2017.]

09. "Some implications of working with such a multifaceted corpus for researchers and students of linguistics, literary studies and cultural studies are discussed. Potential applications to language learning and teaching are briefly covered, suggesting that/showing how a quantitative and qualitative approach to authentic data in computer-readable format can help language learners to cope with the phraseological nature of language. 2 1. The Corpus – data and potential routes of exploitation The corpus I use for the following analyses contains travel literature from the 16th to the 21st century. 3 It comprises about half a million words per century, as evenly distributed across the centuries as possible."[Gerbig, Andrea, and Oliver Mason *Language, People, Numbers: Corpus Linguistics and Society (Language and Computers : Studies in Practical Linguistics)*. Rodopi, 2008.]

10. "However, the intelligence of Coates's discussion and the richness of detail invite further analysis, and it is hoped that the summary in Table 9, in spite of some rounding off when the data is converted to percentages, does not distort her findings. The importance of the epistemic use of at least half of the modals is evident from Table 9. As Coates points out, attempts to generalize about the use of the modals can be misleading because her data shows clear differences between spoken and written use, and the influence of domain of use."[Svartvik, Jan *Directions in Corpus Linguistics*. Reprint 2011 ed. De Gruyter Mouton, 1992.]

11. "Finally, the biggest challenge ahead is probably posed by the third property of corpus data discussed above, viz. the socio-cultural diversity in language use. In section 3. 3, we discussed three general ways in which external variables can influence usage, yet there are many different types of external variables: regiolectal variation, sociolectal variation, register variation, stylistic variation, variation due to differences in communication channel, etc. Moreover, there are quite important qualitative differences between these types of external variables."[Kristiansen, Gitte, and Rene Dirven Gitte Kristiansen *Cognitive Sociolinguistics: Language Variation, Cultural Models, Social Systems (Cognitive Linguistic Research)*. Mouton de Gruyter, 2008.]

12. "Multimodal Discourse Analysis. Washington, D. C. : Georgetown UP. 20-33. Jucker, A. H. 2002. 'Hypertextlinguistics: textuality and typology of hypertexts', in: A. Fischer et al. (eds. ), Text types and corpora. Studies in honour of Udo Fries. Tübingen: Narr. 29-51. Jucker, A. H. 2003. 'Mass media communication at the beginning of the twentyfirst century: dimensions of change', Journal of Historical Pragmatics 4. 1: 129-148. Kaplan, N. 1995. 'E-literacies', Computer-Mediated Communication Magazine 2 (3), March 1."[Gerbig, Andrea, and Oliver Mason *Language, People, Numbers: Corpus Linguistics and Society (Language and Computers : Studies in Practical Linguistics)*. Rodopi, 2008.]

13. "They apply a bottom-up procedure: from the analysis of individual citations, they infer generalizations that lead them to the formulation of abstractions. The categories they design help them understand differences: different text types, syntactic oppositions, variations of style, shades of meaning, etc. Their goal is to collect and shape the linguistic knowledge needed to make a text understandable. (Mahlberg 1996, iv) The same obviously holds for sign language corpora. However, since they contain faceto-face interaction, they are more comparable to spoken language corpora than to written language corpora, and according to Leech (2000, 57), [t]here are two different ways of designing a spoken corpus in order to achieve ‘representativeness’."[Pfau, Roland, Markus Steinbach, and Bencie Woll *Sign Language: An International Handbook*. Mouton De Gruyter, 2012.]

14. "In addition, I found that consultants find it easier to help transcribe video recordings because of the many non-verbal cues that can be attended to in deciphering the material. Taken together, then, these instructions comprise a field procedure in ideophone research that offers a way of constructing rich primary data (Bernard et al. 1986) in a planned context while ensuring a large amount of spontaneity and freedom. Some more specific directions for use of the method are included in Dingemanse (2010)."[Mark., Dingemanse *The Meaning and Use of Ideophones in Siwu*. 2017.]

15. "This kind of flexibility of display will greatly facilitate use of the same data by researchers with differing theoretical orientations. Summary and conclusion This paper discussed seven principles of visual display in a transcript, for highlighting and backgrounding information and indicating relationships among different types of information, illustrated with examples from actual conventions in use in the field. The paper then summarized considerations necessary for effective use of transcript data in computer-assisted research, focussing primarily on issues of regularization and systematic contrast of categories within and across data sets."[Svartvik, Jan *Directions in Corpus Linguistics*. Reprint 2011 ed. De Gruyter Mouton, 1992.]