Created: 2025-11-05 20:47:48
Origin: suggested
Selected: One would not go far wrongin setting up as an ideal the complete suppression of linear measurement and. in obliging oneself to 80 RECESSIONAL MODELLING estimate the relative shapes of volumes amongst themselves. The eye should continually caress the whole thickness of the figure ; never let yourself be tempted to see form as a thin flattened profile line. The drawing we are considering, I suppose, must be called a line drawing ; but mark howit was conceived. Never at any moment did I feel that I was drawing a flat two-dimensioned line upon the plane surface of the paper.[The art and craft of drawing, Vernon Blake, 1927]

--- Context List ---
01. "Form as shape is not the consequence here of a prior distribution of the matter. The form, on the contrary, determines the arrangement of the matter. Even more, it 28 (& Poetry, Language, Thought prescribes in each case the kind and selection of the matter— impermeable for a jug, sufficiently hard for an ax, firm yet flexible for shoes. The interfusion of form and matter prevailing here is, moreover, controlled beforehand by the purposes served by jug, ax, shoes. Such usefulness is never assigned or added on afterward to a being of the type of a jug, ax, or pair of shoes."[Poetry, Language, Thought , Martin Heidegger, 2001]

02. "But by experience we find (according to Cleanthes), that there is a difference between them. Throw several pieces of steel together, without shape or form; they will never arrange themselves so as to compose a watch: stone, and mortar, and wood, without an architect, never erect a house. But the ideas in a human mind, we see, by an unknown, inexplicable economy, arrange themselves so as to form the plan of a watch or house. Experience, therefore, proves, that there is an original principle of order in mind, not in matter."[Historical introduction to philosophy, Hakim, Albert, 2016]

03. "One would not go far wrongin setting up as an ideal the complete suppression of linear measurement and. in obliging oneself to 80 RECESSIONAL MODELLING estimate the relative shapes of volumes amongst themselves. The eye should continually caress the whole thickness of the figure ; never let yourself be tempted to see form as a thin flattened profile line. The drawing we are considering, I suppose, must be called a line drawing ; but mark howit was conceived. Never at any moment did I feel that I was drawing a flat two-dimensioned line upon the plane surface of the paper."[The art and craft of drawing, Vernon Blake, 1927]

04. "But selecting works from among given objects, and deriving concepts from principles, are equally impossible here, and where these procedures are practiced they are a self-deception. Thus we are compelled to follow the circle. This is neither a makeshift nor a defect. To enter upon this path is the strength of thought, to continue on it is the feast of thought, assuming that thinking is a craft."[Poetry, Language, Thought , Martin Heidegger, 2001]

05. "For vividness I have been speaking in terms of varying distances from a sensory periphery. Let me try now to clarify this notion without metaphor. Certain statements, though about physical objects and not sense experience, seem peculiarly germane to sense experience—and in a selective way: some statements to some experiences, others to others. Such statements, especially germane to particular experiences, I picture as near the periphery. But in this relation of “germaneness” I envisage nothing more than a loose association reflecting the relative likelihood, in practice, of our choosing one statement rather than another for revision in the event of recalcitrant experience."[Philosophic Classics: From Plato to Derrida, Forrest E. Baird, 2016]

06. "This insight and understanding are brought about by the arts in general on the plane of feeling and emotion, whence “art is the creation of forms symbolic of 612 The Contemporary Period human feeling. ”But music in particular is the presentational form par excellence, for its “tonal structures . . . bear a close logical similarity to the forms of human feeling. ” This analysis, begun in Philosophy in a New Key, is extended in Langer’s later work, Feeling and Form. For Langer, then, the human being is both receiver and communicator."[Historical introduction to philosophy, Hakim, Albert, 2016]

07. "This is the position I must be understood to take up when I make definite statements concerning the necessity of including such and such a fact in an artistic transcription. It is at least improbable that the future may hold in store for us a totally new aesthetic quite divorced from natural law ; though this natural law would scemto be taking to itself a new shape and aspect before our eyes. It should be quite clearly understood, then, that exact copying of the model is an affair which bearslittle or no relation to the excellence of the work."[The art and craft of drawing, Vernon Blake, 1927]

08. "The average thought-atmosphere of a community is the composite thoughts of the people composing that community. Places, like persons, have their peculiarities, their characteristics, their strong and weak points, their prevailing atmosphere. This fact is apparent to all who have thought at all upon these lines, but the matter is usually dismissed without any attempt at explanation. But it must be apparent that the place itself is not an entity, and that these characteristics are not inherent in them, but must have some cause or origin."[The Spiritual Writings of Yogi Ramacharaka, Yogi Ramacharaka , William Walker Atkinson, 2014]

09. "But how this argument can have place, where the objects, as in the present case, are single, individual, without parallel, or specific resemblance, may be difficult to explain. And will any man tell me with a serious countenance, that an orderly universe must arise from some thought and art, like the human; because we have experience of it?To ascertain this reasoning, it were requisite, that we had experience of the origin of worlds; and it is not sufficient surely, that we have seen ships and cities arise from human art and contrivance."[Historical introduction to philosophy, Hakim, Albert, 2016]

10. "Thus a priori principles form the basis of objectively valid, though empirical, judgments—that is, of the possibility of experience so far as it must connect objects as existing in nature. These principles are the real laws of nature, which may be termed “dynamical. ” Finally knowledge of the agreement and connection, not only of appearances among themselves in experience, but of their relation to experience in general, belongs to the judgments of experience. This relation contains either their agreement with the formal conditions, which the understanding recognizes, or their coherence with the materials of the senses and of perception, or combines both into one concept."[Philosophic Classics: From Plato to Derrida, Forrest E. Baird, 2016]