Created: 2025-11-23 00:57:55
Origin: suggested
Selected: In many situations Globish may be a more feasible communication tool than normal English, but it is still, to some extent, a vehicle of culture—in particular, Anglo culture. The invisible cultural legacy of English is hidden in the meaning of many Globish words. By contrast, the NSM minilexicon of sixty-three words that have matching semantic counterparts in all languages is independent of any one speciﬁc culture. To demonstrate NSM methodology, I propose two explications: one of the French word empirique and one of the English word empirical (in the English version of NSM, which closely matches the French version).[Wierzbicka, Anna *Experience, evidence, and sense : the hidden cultural legacy of English*. Oxford, Toronto: Oxford University Press, 2010.]

--- Context List ---
01. "In many situations Globish may be a more feasible communication tool than normal English, but it is still, to some extent, a vehicle of culture—in particular, Anglo culture. The invisible cultural legacy of English is hidden in the meaning of many Globish words. By contrast, the NSM minilexicon of sixty-three words that have matching semantic counterparts in all languages is independent of any one speciﬁc culture. To demonstrate NSM methodology, I propose two explications: one of the French word empirique and one of the English word empirical (in the English version of NSM, which closely matches the French version)."[Wierzbicka, Anna *Experience, evidence, and sense : the hidden cultural legacy of English*. Oxford, Toronto: Oxford University Press, 2010.]

02. "Many examples cited in the present book come from a subcorpus of a corpus called COBUILD (the acronym for Collins Birmingham University International Language Database). This subcorpus, which is available online, contains 56 million words and includes excerpts from books (ﬁction and nonﬁction) and newspapers, as well as samples of spoken English. The French examples cited in this book are (unless otherwise indicated) drawn from the French subcorpus of COBUILD, which comprises approximately 100 million words."[Wierzbicka, Anna *Experience, evidence, and sense : the hidden cultural legacy of English*. Oxford, Toronto: Oxford University Press, 2010.]

03. "The basic idea of the book, Empson says (1977, viii), is that “as the various meanings within one word, and their interactions, are tricky to analyze out, yet the speakers often interpret a use of them with conﬁdence and speed, there is likely to be an inner grammar of complex words like the overt grammar of sentences. ” I share Empson’s wonder at the conﬁdence and speed with which speakers interpret the numerous different uses of a multifaceted word like sense, and I, too, admire the complex, intricate, and orderly network of crisscrossing semantic components that deﬁne the semantic space of sense in all its different but interrelated meanings."[Wierzbicka, Anna *Experience, evidence, and sense : the hidden cultural legacy of English*. Oxford, Toronto: Oxford University Press, 2010.]

04. "Another diagram may help. The inward transcendency in Figure 3. 2 is called the “I. ” It is doubtful that context would fail to distinguish in spoken rather than written language between the words “I” and “eye. ” Phenomenologists often use the word “ego,” sometimes capitalized, but that word has so many significations that a relatively fresh and immediately comprehensible alternative will be better."[Embree, Lester *Reflective Analysis: A First Introduction into Phenomenological Investigation*. 2nd. Bucharest: Zeta Books, 2011.]

05. "That requires in this instance our attending thoughtfully and painstakingly to the poetic description of the poet’s experience of a poetic word. Discourse Language, Saying, Showing 139 Indeed, the ﬁrst thing one realizes when engaging seriously with a poem is that poetic language rarely offers clear, unequivocal propositions as the content of its sentences. To reduce a poem to a punch line, to a readily intelligible and unambiguous claim is somehow to miss what is essential."[Wrathall, Mark A. *Heidegger and Unconcealment: Truth, Language, and History*. Cambridge University Press, 2010.]

06. "The word, in the original sense, is the nexus of signiﬁcative relationships. Words are prior to terms because it is only through a grasp of the meaningful relations that entities bear to one another that their associated names have the meaning that they have. If we consider this distinction in the context of George’s poem, we can see that the different ways of hearing “word” will lead us to imagine different reasons why the word might be missing."[Wrathall, Mark A. *Heidegger and Unconcealment: Truth, Language, and History*. Cambridge University Press, 2010.]

07. "The . . . referenceto larger wholes is implied in many terms which we continually use as banal words. We do not generally realize that the meaning of such words points beyond the local facts to which the words may seemto be attached. From a large list I will give only the : The German 'Rand' (in English ' brink ' or 'edge') is such a following examples ' ' word ; again Anfang (' beginning' ), 'Ende' and 'Schluss' ('end' and 'close'), 'Stuck' ' and ' Teil (' piece' and ' part ' ), 'Rest' (' rest' or ' remnant' ); also 'Loch' (' hole' ) and ' ' ' ' ' ' Storung ( disturbance )."[Casati, Roberto, and Achille C. Varzi *Holes and Other Superficialities (Bradford Books)*. 1995.]

08. "The wide use of the word "story" in the Springsteen fan community is no accident. As words like "spirit" and "message," for instance, have a special, extraordinary meaning to members of a religious community (Titon 1988, p. 195), the 174 Tramps Like Us word "story" among Springsteen fans resonates in powerful ways. While the conventional meaning of a story is an account of an event, for Springsteen fans the word refers to a particular means of understanding the world. It is not simply a closed text which represents a factual or fictional occurrence but a process of organizing, interpreting, and enhancing experience."[Cavicchi, Daniel *Tramps Like Us: Music and Meaning among Springsteen Fans*. 1998.]

09. "The originary language of the logos is decidedly not something like a stock of terms, each with its associated meaning and reference, together with rules for constructing sentences out of those terms. But to make this point more evident, we need to consider what Heidegger does say about the relationship between words and the originary language or the Gefüge. We also need to think through the relationship between words and entities in order to come to a clearer understanding of the slogan and Heidegger’s alleged linguistic constitutionalism."[Wrathall, Mark A. *Heidegger and Unconcealment: Truth, Language, and History*. Cambridge University Press, 2010.]

10. "We decided that "charming" was the most appropriate English word to carry the crucial nuances of "captivating," "fascinating," and "alluring"—all of which inhere in Beriickung. The other two words in this family of words, i. e. , Ruck and Riickung, we rendered with shift and shifting. The m anner in which Contributions makes use of the word Auseinandersetzung—a word as often used in German academic philosophy as perhaps the words "discussion," "dispute," and "argument" in English academic philosophy—requires that we discuss our renditions of this word in connection with the preceding deliberations on rücken as a related word."[Heidegger, Martin *Contributions to Philosophy (from Enowning)*. Indiana University Press, 2000.]

11. "When the young undergraduate student William Empson (1906–84) set out his somewhat mathematically minded views on the multiple meanings of words in literature in Seven Types of Ambiguity (1930), he created a worry-reader’s text book. Empson examined the capacity of words to create meanings that affirmed, extended, resisted, or flatly contradicted other meanings. He was interested in the different accounts each word or sentence could give of itself, in how many different ways a word or sentence could suggest different simultaneous meanings, even meanings that resulted in radical contradiction (that is the seventh type of ambiguity)."[O’Gorman, Francis *Worrying: A Literary and Cultural History*. Kindle Edition. Bloomsbury Academic, 2015.]

12. "Those aspects can obviously be named with the words “purpose” and “value,” and the word “signification” can name that which is expressed by words. The verb “to signify” can also serve in place of “to mean” in technical contexts. In an extremely broad signification of the word “observation,” there can be observation of significations. Such observation is what we rely on when we grasp not only the same signification in various real carriers, but also when we recognize homonyms, which is where the same sound is used to express different significations."[Embree, Lester *Reflective Analysis: A First Introduction into Phenomenological Investigation*. 2nd. Bucharest: Zeta Books, 2011.]

13. "In the process, he posed questions about the nature of language that still haven’t been settled once and for all. These days, to be sure, most linguists agree with Hermogenes that the vocal noises we call “words” take their meaning solely from habit. Defenders of this view point to the fact that words for the same thing in different languages very often have few or no sounds in common. Consider, as just one example, the Welsh word march (pronounced “markh”), the French word cheval, and the English word “horse,” all of which mean the same animal."[Greer, John Michael *The Coelbren Alphabet: The Forgotten Oracle of the Welsh Bards*. Llewellyn Publications, 2017.]

14. "The verb itself is a combination of two words, Ii. A. A. a and ayopi;uro, which together mean 'to say other things' . 1 9 Related to the idea of allegory, there is also the idea of hyponoia (u7t6vota), which can be defined as the interpretation of a word, phrase, or passage that is understood The Interpretation ofHomer 49 as a camouflaged expression for a meaning that a poet expresses in metaphorical or allegorical language. 20 In reading Homer, Antisthenes realized that what the poet said in a particular passage did not have the meaning that his words would convey in ordinary speech."[Navia, Luis *Antisthenes of Athens: Setting the World Aright*. annotated edition. Praeger, 2001.]

15. "This quick survey has shown that neither opinio in Sen. Ep. 117. 6 nor notitia in Sen. Ep. 120. 4 are used as technical terms that would suffice to translate the full complexity of concepts like prolēpsis for a Roman reader. Like Cicero, Seneca sometimes prefers general and common terms, whose meaning is then narrowed down by modifying adverbs, adjectives, and locatives. Seneca follows Cicero’s strategy of composing a larger lexical web in order to clarify a concept that could be difficult to understand if it were expressed with only one technical term in the target language."[Wildberger, Julia, and Marcia L. Colish (eds.) *Seneca Philosophus (Trends in Classics - Supplementary Volumes)*. De Gruyter, 2014.]