Created: 2025-12-26 23:12:11
Origin: suggested
Selected: The western half of Wall C contains a ca. 16 m long fragment of a very specific wall structure (Wall C1, see Fig. 2), preserved in up to two stone courses of its regular masonry. This Wall C1 and its material and constructional characteristics will be the focus of the following considerations. Some portions of surface have been seriously affected by consolidation interventions, especially those of the 1960s.[Le Brun, Nicolas *Building knowledge, construction history. 2 vols. Proceedings of the 6th International Congress on Construction History (6ICCH 2018), July 9-13, 2018, Brussels, Belgium*. London: CRC Press (U.K.), 2018.]

--- Context List ---
01. "The western half of Wall C contains a ca. 16 m long fragment of a very specific wall structure (Wall C1, see Fig. 2), preserved in up to two stone courses of its regular masonry. This Wall C1 and its material and constructional characteristics will be the focus of the following considerations. Some portions of surface have been seriously affected by consolidation interventions, especially those of the 1960s."[Le Brun, Nicolas *Building knowledge, construction history. 2 vols. Proceedings of the 6th International Congress on Construction History (6ICCH 2018), July 9-13, 2018, Brussels, Belgium*. London: CRC Press (U.K.), 2018.]

02. "XXXII, |i r- V. G . . i o , rr . r , 'I - tb Fig. 12. The plastered pier in Building B, with the remains of wall 420, the western wall of Building B, above it. In the foreground, digging has proceeded into Silo B. 1969, 4) THE BIBLICALARCHAEOLOGIST 97 cracks of the bedrock foundation of wall 420 (Fig 12). That wall 420 (above the pier in Fig. 12) is an exterior wall seemed clear from the higher bedrock exposed for another meter to the west."[Research, American Schools of Oriental The Biblical Archaeologist - Vol.32, N.4 (1969).]

03. "If Wall 3042 was indeed a Stratum-VIIIA construction, it is strange that there was no clear evidence of a rebuild of Wall 3041 in its upper courses where it bonds with Wall 3042. Within Room 326, beaten earth Surface E65:45 seals up against Wall 3042 and covers a patch of plaster on the south face of the wall. The surface itself was covered with gray, black and red flecks and scattered patches of plaster."[Daviau, P. M. Michele, Paul-Eugene Dion, Ronald G. V. Hancock, David Hemsworth, Margaret A. Judd, Ryan Defonzo, and Douglas W. Schnurrenberger *Excavations at Tall Jawa, Jordan, Volume 1: The Iron Age Town*. Brill Academic Publishers, 2003.]

04. "This necropolis, brought to near artistic perfection by its builders and craftsmen, is the famous “Saadien Tombs,” sealed off from view until the early-twentieth century. Nowadays indissociable from the qibla wall, the mihrab is commonly a mosque’s most ornate element, located neither before nor behind the qibla wall, but within it. 23 Most frequently in the form of a recessed, arcuated niche, the mihrab is thought by some to signify an absent presence: that of the Prophet as Imam. 24 Ambiguous, because presence and absence at once co-exist, this signiﬁcation draws upon the mihrab’s location within the liminal, equally ambiguous qibla wall. 25 An alternative signiﬁcation, as proposed by Clevenot again, is that of a door inviting the believer to traverse the wall and pass beyond immediate reality. 26 This interpretation, too, draws upon the mihrab’s location within qibla wall, for without the wall, there would be no door for traversal."[O'Meara, Simon *Space and Muslim Urban Life: At the Limits of the Labyrinth of Fez (Culture and Civilization in the Middle East)*. 2007.]

05. "PAGE 20 WOVEN WALL The ur-wall is not, according to  19th century architectural theorist  Gottfried Semper, a mud or stone  line of enormous and reassuring  heft, but an artful, woven partition.  Hanging loosely, perhaps flapping,  the woven screen generates-   and, crucially, symbolizes -   the division and organization of  activities within the primitive dwelling. The woven "wall" is an enabler  of civilization; the thick structural  wall merely a defender of it. "[INPUT: wall.pdf]

06. "Yet, wall C integrates the remains of a remarkable, obviously even earlier structure (Wall C1), most of which had already been destroyed or dismantled when the construction of wall C was started. Here, we get a glimpse of the concepts of a medieval “building in the historical context”. 3. 2 Definition of structural criteria for masonry of wall C1 The question of when Wall C1 could have been built cannot be answered in Baku itself, since no directly comparable constructions or construction techniques have been discovered here so far."[Le Brun, Nicolas *Building knowledge, construction history. 2 vols. Proceedings of the 6th International Congress on Construction History (6ICCH 2018), July 9-13, 2018, Brussels, Belgium*. London: CRC Press (U.K.), 2018.]

07. "There is some damage at the ceiling level where the joists have moved relative to the wall and caused damage to the plaster. This may also be an indication that the wall has moved outward from underneath the ceiling structure. There was very little damage observed to the west exterior wall in Rooms 6 and 7. The east exterior wall is enclosed by a porch that is part of a more recently constructed museum structure."[Tolles, E. Leroy, Frederick A. Webster, Anthony Crosby, and Edna E. Kimbro *Survey of Damage to Historic Adobe Buildings after the January 1994 Northridge Earthquake  (GCI Scientific Program Report)*. Getty Publications, 1996.]

08. "37:a). The smaller, inner niche has the same dimensions as that at the south end and also has a hole in the center of the back wall (not shown in Plate 51), but the wall is not standing to a height sufficient to have preservedthe large, shallowly recessedarch above. South of this niche, in the main wall surface,a hole in the wall correspondingto the one in the south wall is cut in diagonally,althoughonly for approximately0. 45 m. White marble revetmentis still in situ on the wall of the smaller niche at the south end, and a fragmentof lapis lacedaemonius is preserved at the north end."[Biers, Jane C. *The Great Bath on the Lechaion Road (Corinth vol.17)*. Volume XVII. 1985.]

09. "It is this physical legacy of impressive lengths of disparately constructed ramparts, built centuries apart with often little rderence to each other, which we now call the 'Great Wall of China'. / 7 Chronology 221 Be 215 Be 119 Ie AD SSG Illl IllS 1368 1372 Unification of Chi~ under the Qin Emperor Meng rlan on:Jered to build defences: the Qin Great W;ill Han Wudi's expedition ipinSt ~ Xiongrou leads to Han Greu WaJJ Rise of Northern Qi dyNsty, who built some walls Mongols ride through the Juyongguan Plls fall of Zhongdu (Beijing) to the Mongols founding of the Ming dynasty Ming defeated by Mongol Army at K3. n. korum First military strutt\Jre built at Jiayuguan 1382 1429 1442 1449/ 1474 1482 ISlO IS39 1540 1550 1567 1570 1616 1644 1677 179] 1900 19)) 1937 1984 8 Wall built at Shanhaiguan First use of term chang cheng ir'l a Ming document Ramparts built in Liaodong Ming Emperor captured in the Tumu Incident Wall completed in Ordos area Mongol raiders defeated beside the Ordos wall Breech-loading cannon ordered for the Great Wall Building recorded at Badaling Rebuilding of Jiayuguan fortress Altan Khan attacks Beijing Qi Jiguang tr. msferred from c;oastal defence to Great W;ioll construction Probable date of commencement of Jinslunling section The Great Wall is depicted on John Speed's map of China Manchus enter Beijing Qing Emperor- decides not to restore the Great Wall lord Macarmer's minion describes the Great Wall Old D~on's Head destroyed dUring BolO:er Rebellion Japanese attack Shanhaiguan Japanese defeated at Pingxlngguan Deng Xiaoping praises the Great Wall Design and development The Great Wall and its builders The first Chinese rule!"[*The Great Wall of China 221 BC - AD 1644* 2011.]

10. "This wall is the only transverse interior wall that has no central support from a perpendicular intermediate wall and most clearly demonstrates the out-of-plane behavior of slender adobe walls. The north wall of Room 10 has a more complex pattern of cracks, complicated by the central support provided by the intermediate wall between Rooms 11 and 12. This wall is also partially covered by plywood and temporary bracing, which obscured observation."[Tolles, E. Leroy, Frederick A. Webster, Anthony Crosby, and Edna E. Kimbro *Survey of Damage to Historic Adobe Buildings after the January 1994 Northridge Earthquake  (GCI Scientific Program Report)*. Getty Publications, 1996.]

11. "At the base of the tell, the face of a boulder-and-chink wall (W1001) was completely exposed in Square A1. A second parallel wall (W1002), located midway on the slope, was visible at intervals. The innermost wall (W1004)    ran along the crest of the slope and was partly obscured by a modern property wall (W1031; Herr et al. 1991: pl."[Daviau, P. M. Michele, Paul-Eugene Dion, Ronald G. V. Hancock, David Hemsworth, Margaret A. Judd, Ryan Defonzo, and Douglas W. Schnurrenberger *Excavations at Tall Jawa, Jordan, Volume 1: The Iron Age Town*. Brill Academic Publishers, 2003.]

12. "The east wall seen by Ittar and Dinsmoor is still visible above the south apse wall (PI. 10:a). At a lower level the original west wall of the area can be seen through the break in the south apse wall. It continues the line of the west wall of Room 2 south beyond the apse for 0. 56 m. before it is joined by the wall of a vaulted chamber extending to the southeast."[Biers, Jane C. *The Great Bath on the Lechaion Road (Corinth vol.17)*. Volume XVII. 1985.]

13. "That quote struck me because it seems that when a people are under constant pressure from a power with much greater force than they have, it becomes necessary to find paths through that force which can destabilize it using only the modest means available to them. ’ 42 AGAINST THE WALL BETHLEHEM 43 44 AGAINST THE WALL BETHLEHEM 45 44 AGAINST THE WALL BETHLEHEM 45 ‘Dead city’ reads the graffiti in English and Spanish along a span of the Wall that separates Rachel’s Tomb from Bethlehem."[Parry, William *Against the Wall: The Art of Resistance in Palestine*. Chicago Review Press, 2011.]

14. "The upper had loogholes, but there weriPno merlons on the walls* wall-walk (boevoy ran behind^ parapet supplied with loopholes. The up^e^partioof the wall ~* uiltsslightly projecting beyond the plafte o£ljie wall, so that there was a between the uppej and lower partsaof the wall. The clearance served the "e purpose as hoarding or machicolations in European castles: t% command "space at the foot of the wall."[Nossov, Konstantin, and Peter Dennis *Medieval Russian Fortresses AD 862-1480*. Osprey Publishing, 2007.]

15. "This is one ofthegreat myths ofthe Great Wall, so that it is possible to read careless accounts of nomads 'raiding through the Great Wall', when no such structure actually existed in the specified location at the specified time."[*The Great Wall of China 221 BC - AD 1644* 2011.]

16. "The signiﬁcance of a wall’s threshold qualities notwithstanding, a wall is empirically also a screen, or cover; a function of particular importance to medieval and premodern urban Arab-Muslim culture, with its traditional enclaustration and veiling of women."[O'Meara, Simon *Space and Muslim Urban Life: At the Limits of the Labyrinth of Fez (Culture and Civilization in the Middle East)*. 2007.]

17. "In the context of this chapter, shaping a wall in plan presents opportunities for architectural enrichment, as illustrated at the Mönchengladbach Museum. Highly regarded for the qualities of its interior spaces and urban setting, an exterior gallery wall undulates (Fig. 4. 10). The sinuous wall imbues one gallery interior with special character and outside, the wall’s serpentine geometry appears as a natural extension of the curvilinear paths and brick walls that lead up the hillside to the museum."[Charleson, Andrew *Structure As Architecture: A Source Book For Architects And Structural Engineers*. Architectural Press, 2005.]

18. "• At the fa£ade of one building, there was a veneer-clad wing wall above a fourth floor terrace area. This wall was topped with coping stones, with the top of the wall angled downward toward the exterior. There was a concrete beam running along the top of the wall (below the coping and veneer). A coping stone was removed from this wall to observe the anchorage of the coping and the condition at the wall cavity."[(Editors), Paul A. Bosela 7 Norbert J. Delatte *Forensic engineering : proceedings of the 4th congress, October 6-9, 2006, Cleveland, Ohio*. Cleveland, Ohio), Reston, Va: American Society of Civil Engineers, 2007.]

19. "A structure that in its relief recalls the blood spilt and the familiar patina of bullet-peppered walls. Standing opposite this wall, polished concrete niches are covered with the names of victims. Names also frame the burial field as a low wall forms a horizontal stone frieze that chronologically lists Jewish communes recalling the sequence of transports."[*The Architectural Review - Sellection  2002-2005* 2011.]

20. "I texted my partner: Someone should document the artwork on the Wall for posterity. One day the Wall won’t be here so we need a record of it lol!Several decades after the Berlin Wall fell, this book is being published. I have tried to provide a glimpse into the richness and spirit of the artwork and graffiti out there, and the complex reality that generates it."[Parry, William *Against the Wall: The Art of Resistance in Palestine*. Chicago Review Press, 2011.]

21. "Hallway and special designed wall 3. Dusk view of façade 4."[Yu, Jasmine *Museum Display Design*. Design Media Publishing Limited, 2012.]

22. "A wall-walk (boevoy hod) ran behind a parapet supplied with loopholes. The upper part of the wall was built slightly projecting beyond the plane of the wall, so that there was a gap between the upper and lower parts of the wall. The clearance served the same purpose as hoarding or machicolations in European castles: to command the space at the foot of the wall."[Nossov, Konstantin, and Peter Dennis *Medieval Russian Fortresses AD 862-1480*. Osprey Publishing, 2007.]

23. "The great curved retaining wall and the thinner wall it supported (pls. 16, 1 – 2) were made of bluish gray marble, as were the lower portions of the long stage wall (plan 4) and its terminal piers. The interior surfaces were hidden behind a marble revetment, either in the form of thick orthostat slabs, as in the podia of the orchestra (pl. 29, 2) and summa cavea (pls."[Bier, Lionel *The Bouleuterion at Ephesos*. Wien: Österreichische Akademie der Wissenschaften, 2011.]

24. "Gates of the same design as at Megiddo occur both at Hazor and Gezer, each one associated with a casemate wall. Therefore Yadin reinvestigated the situation at Megiddo with the aim of rationalising matters by the discovery of an earlier casemate wall below the solid wall."[Wright, G.R.H. *Ancient Building in South Syria and Palestine*. Leiden: Brill, 1985.]

25. "PAGE 14 ca. 1691 Qing Dynasty handscroll  illustrates garrison movements, troop  positions, enemy encampments and  natural resources along the Great Wall  of China. 6th-8th century Slavic  fortress, or "grod,"  a tightly constructued  wooden machanism  of separation. WALL PAGE 15 1st-4th centuries AD The Roman Limes,  a concept for turning  space beyond the  walls of the city into a  lethal obstacle course -   an extended wall. . . "[INPUT: wall.pdf]