Created: 2025-12-18 22:14:35
Origin: searched
Selected: It was this subversive image that Wittgenstein sought to expel from language, which the behaviorists sought to purge from psychology, and which contemporary art-theorists have sought to cast out o f pictorial representation itself. The modern pictorial image, like the ancient notion of "likeness," is at last revealed to be linguistic in its inner workings. Why do we have this compulsion to conceive of the relation between words and images i n political terms, as a struggle for territory, a contest of rival ideologies?[Mitchell, W. J. T. *Iconology: Image, Text, Ideology*. University Of Chicago Press, 1987.]

--- Context List ---
01. "It was this subversive image that Wittgenstein sought to expel from language, which the behaviorists sought to purge from psychology, and which contemporary art-theorists have sought to cast out o f pictorial representation itself. The modern pictorial image, like the ancient notion of "likeness," is at last revealed to be linguistic in its inner workings. Why do we have this compulsion to conceive of the relation between words and images i n political terms, as a struggle for territory, a contest of rival ideologies?"[Mitchell, W. J. T. *Iconology: Image, Text, Ideology*. University Of Chicago Press, 1987.]

02. "The human eye does not withdraw from the digital humanities, and it is not necessarily so that the digital humanities are posthuman in character, but the changes are radical enough to necessitate the label ‘digital humanities’. In the future, perhaps it will be the humanities that will be discussed again, which, in the view we offer here, would be a victory for the second wave as an absorption of digital practices seamlessly into the field of the humanities. In such an event, the data and streams that concern the digital humanities are not considered apart from meaning, but are either a route to semantic understanding, or are understood semantically in themselves."[Berry, David M. *Understanding Digital Humanities*. Palgrave Macmillan, 2012.]

03. "Let me therefore begin with some preliminary, general remarks in order to situate the interiority we find thematized in the interieur as genre of pictorial representation. The mode of a clearly marked pictorial function leads into the center of our theories and uses of pictures in general. The theory of images is complicated by the fact that the image as such, the pure image, does not exist. Where there are images, they develop and form, say, as imagination or formation. The much-celebrated ‘dialectic’ of the image, of model and copy—Ur-bild and Ab-bild in Gadamer’s distinction—amounts to an implicit orientation of the conception of the image (which therefore qualifies as a ‘negative dialectic’ in Adorno’s elaboration) in likenesses of, imaginings in, and formations to. 1 The paradoxical constitution of the image, implied in the negative dialectics of its conception, renders the image, as the process and result of its formative forces, more an inner-image than an outer-image."[Söntgen, Beate, and Ewa Lajer-Burcharth *Interiors and Interiority*. De Gruyter, 2015.]

04. "In a quantitative/qualitative analysis of this tension, Patrick Svensson shows that the tradition of textual analyses remains strong, arguably maintaining its position as the dominant strand. From a very different perspective, Johanna Drucker argues that the digital humanities have been co-opted by a computational perspective inherited from computer science, betraying the humanistic tradition of critical interpretation. Positioning ‘speculative computing’ as the other to the digital humanities, she argues that speculative computing ‘attempts to open the field of discourse to its infinite and peculiar richness 10. 1057/9780230371934 - Understanding Digital Humanities, Edited by David M. Berry How We Think 45 as deformative interpretation."[Berry, David M. *Understanding Digital Humanities*. Palgrave Macmillan, 2012.]

05. "Deep reading has always been a process of interaction with text (Carr 2010; Kittler 1999), but the digital humanities take this one step further. Instead of simply losing ourselves through our imagination, the nature of digital technology is such that we are becoming integrated with the text itself; our brain is not simply picturing a new world, it is instead developing a new world, opening up new neural pathways in reaction to the speed and expanse of interaction with digital data (Carr 2010: 141)."[Berry, David M. *Understanding Digital Humanities*. Palgrave Macmillan, 2012.]

06. "46 The Idea o f Imagery hand, a renewed respect for the eloquence o f images and, on the other hand, a renewed faith in the perspicuousness o f language, a sense that discourse does project worlds and states of affairs that can be pictured concretely and tested against other representations. Perhaps the redemption o f the imagination lies in accepting the fact that we create much o f our world out o f the dialogue between verbal and pictorial representations, and that our task is not to renounce this dialogue in favor o f a direct assault on nature but to see that nature already informs both sides of the conversation."[Mitchell, W. J. T. *Iconology: Image, Text, Ideology*. University Of Chicago Press, 1987.]

07. "79  This  represents  a  miniscule  shift  in  the  hypothesis,  yet  it  is  fundamentally  essential  for  the  evaluation.  The  answer  is  to  be  found  in  the  disparity  in  the  cognitive  faculty  of  image  and  word,  eye  and  handwriting.  Images  generally  precede  lan-  guage and  those  areas  of  thought  conveyed  linguistically.  The  conflict  between  a  static  and  an  evolutionary  view  of  nature  is  thus  at  the  same  time  a  conflict  between  the  shocking  unfamil-  iarity  of  the  visual  autopsy  and  the  courage  to  let  this  impres-  sion into  the  control  room  of  language  and  concepts.  Bacon,  "[INPUT: The  lure of antiquity and the cult of the machine- the -- Horst Bredekamp; translation from German by Allison Brown -- Princeton, United States, 1995 -- 9781558760936 -- 1996c8fb6dd36095c7050597dd446780 -- Anna’s Archive.pdf]

08. "Words work their effect by sympathy, substitution, and sound, in contrast to imitation, resemblance, and vision, the mechanisms of image production. T o notice this, however, is also to notice that words are ultimately cut off from what we have previously seen as the source o f the verbal sublime—the imagination, which notices "resemblances" and creates new images. In this antipictorial account o f language, the effects o f words have only an attenuated, indirect connection with the lower parts o f human nature; their effect is the product of custom, habit, and acculturation."[Mitchell, W. J. T. *Iconology: Image, Text, Ideology*. University Of Chicago Press, 1987.]

09. "Sachiko Kusukawa has recently discussed with particular insight the emergence of visual arguments in early modern scientific texts and has emphasized ways in which images, texts, and objects interrelated to make claims about natural knowledge (Kusukawa 2012). In reading texts through images arguments about nature and the body clearly emerged, and yet, the relationship between text and image in early modern herbals was not built in free space, but came into being as a result of other relationships, social as well as material in nature, constructed upon associations between objects, artists, authors, and commerce."[(eds.), Matteo Valleriani *The Structures of Practical Knowledge*. Springer International Publishing, 2017.]

10. "It is the reader’s habit to take pleasure in pleasurable images and to be entertained; this opens the door for manipulation from teachers, governments, and advertisers. But not every image is pleasurable, and even pleasurable images can sometimes fail to capture the viewer. In all of this, the relationship between image and word is unstable."[Sappol, Michael *Body Modern: Fritz Kahn, Scientific Illustration, and the Homuncular Subject*. University of Minnesota Press, 2017.]

11. "Images draw from local genealogies and pictorial traditions that include secular and sacred representations. As time goes on, they become imbricated in a global network of image making. My interest in this process, and in the images, spaces, and discourses that it produces, has led me to write this book. Similarly, disaster is not static. It is an unfolding temporal landscape within which visual production must be historicized. In exploring diverse reactions to the Kantō earthquake over time, I identify the multiplicity and changing nature of this traumatic experience for the Japanese."[Weisenfeld, Gennifer Stacy *Imaging disaster : Tokyo and the visual culture of Japan's Great Earthquake of 1923*. Japan: University of California Press, 2012.]

12. "What the cutter of plant images created, then, was a relief image that was, so to speak, clear cut, and that, as a result, made statements that were explicit without being literal. Such images have been discussed in terms of simplified abstractions that gave rise to a new sort of natural realism (Ogilvie 2006, 192–206) in the late Renaissance and within which could be found early stirrings of scientific objectivity by way of truthto-nature visual statements (Daston and Gallison 2010, chapter 2). Yet, the very nature of woodblock imagery, clear-cut shapes that did not necessarily call attention to particularized details, made for a visual logic adaptable to various contexts and forms of thinking and reasoning."[(eds.), Matteo Valleriani *The Structures of Practical Knowledge*. Springer International Publishing, 2017.]

13. "Does the curved shape of London's Swiss Re Building, the twisted profile of New York's proposed Freedom Tower, or the non-repetitive roof structure of the British Museum courtyard represent some significant change in the conditions of production of architecture?The shift, I suggest, is a direct outcome of new conditions created by the digital revolution. Buildings were once materialized drawings, but now, increasingly, they are materialized digital information designed with the help of computer-aided design systems, fabricated by means of digitally controlled machinery, put together on site with the assistance of digital layout and positioning devices, and generally inseparable from flows of information through global computer networks."[(auth.), Georg Flachbart, Georg Flachbart, and Peter Weibel (eds.) *Disappearing Architecture: From Real to Virtual to Quantum*. Birkhäuser Basel, 2005.]

14. "W. J. T. Mitchell’s distinction of the two different components that constitute visual imagery – the image as the virtual part and the picture as its material carrier – is useful to understand this relation: “You can hang a picture, but you cannot hang an image. The image seems to float without any material support, a phantasmatic, virtual or spectral appearance. It is what can be lifted off the picture (and) transferred to another medium” (2005: 85) – for example to architecture. In this sense, THE VENETIAN realizes an image of Venice as a three-dimensional, walk-in picture space."[Wolf, Werner, Walter Bernhart, and Andreas Mahler *Immersion and Distance: Aesthetic Illusion in Literature and Other Media*. Rodopi, 2013.]

15. "D E " " ' S DEI FavfinDj nE4 Bpo PE^'EH |llE"bEL Part Zero: The Architecture _o. 2 Special Reports 146 Del Favero, Brown, Shaw, Weibel: T_Visionan'um 147 Part Zero: The Architecture _o. 2 Special Reports T_VISIONARIUM . TOWARDS A DIALOGIC CONCEPT OF DIGITAL NARRATIVE Concept of the Dialogic Currently the dominant position in aesthetics conceptualizes narrative as monotemporal or linear. The digital, by contrast, is conceptualized as a-temporal or non-linear. This monochronic explanation reduces narrative to a mono-temporal process that fails to account for not only the potential of interactive digital narrative but also the workings of conventional cinematic narrative itself."[(auth.), Georg Flachbart, Georg Flachbart, and Peter Weibel (eds.) *Disappearing Architecture: From Real to Virtual to Quantum*. Birkhäuser Basel, 2005.]