Created: 2025-12-19 14:38:16
Origin: searched
Selected: In Japan, from the beginning, Architecture with a capital A never existed. When Karatani's Architecture as Metaphor was published in Japan, I was extremely interested in the fact that this book located the place of Architecture, the presence I felt behind textuality; and then I was struck by the procedures it uses to deconstruct the processes through which architecture is employed as metaphor. I think that Architecture as Metaphor, rather than remaining just a title, will begin to function as a double m e t a p h o r f o r a r c h i t e c t u r e today: while i t is still burdened with its old metaphorical power, it is now confronting the new crisis and oriented toward an unforeseen problematic formation.[Karatani, Kojin, and Sabu Kohso *Architecture as Metaphor: Language, Number, Money (Writing Architecture)*. The MIT Press, 1995.]

--- Context List ---
01. "In Japan, from the beginning, Architecture with a capital A never existed. When Karatani's Architecture as Metaphor was published in Japan, I was extremely interested in the fact that this book located the place of Architecture, the presence I felt behind textuality; and then I was struck by the procedures it uses to deconstruct the processes through which architecture is employed as metaphor. I think that Architecture as Metaphor, rather than remaining just a title, will begin to function as a double m e t a p h o r f o r a r c h i t e c t u r e today: while i t is still burdened with its old metaphorical power, it is now confronting the new crisis and oriented toward an unforeseen problematic formation."[Karatani, Kojin, and Sabu Kohso *Architecture as Metaphor: Language, Number, Money (Writing Architecture)*. The MIT Press, 1995.]

02. "Who’s arguing?How does resolving that architecture is the making of metaphors settle the argument?Through analogies, similes and evidence, I present arguments supporting the resolutions surrounding the way architects and urban designers make metaphors. This is done by presenting the thinking on making both natural and synthetic cities as well as the design of buildings and neighborhoods. Cited throughout are linguistic, cognitive, psychological and philosophical mechanisms of the metaphor and their applicability."[Fez-Barringten, Barie, and Edward Hart *Architecture: The Making of Metaphors*. Cambridge Scholars Publishing, 2012.]

03. "Owner-occupied specialized works of architectural metaphors may encompasses everything from long periods of research; observations; analysis; conclusions; redesign; rethinking of existing or utility of new systems; setting our system feasibility; pricing and meeting budgets, palling and programming; diagraming and design of sub-systems and systems but when complete the metaphor is accessible, usable and compatible. The whole of the metaphor is designed in such a way as to clarify, orient and provide reification of all the design parameters into a “highly structured” work; a work which homogenizes all these diverse and disjointed systems and operations into a well working machine."[Fez-Barringten, Barie, and Edward Hart *Architecture: The Making of Metaphors*. Cambridge Scholars Publishing, 2012.]

04. "Arata Isozaki On the English Edition of Architecture as Metaphor Architecture as Metaphor is Karatani's most resolute attempt to confront the metaphysical mechanism that has tacitly normalized the intellectual practices of the West ever since Plato's time. By an exhaustive analysis of the ways in which architecture as metaphor pervades our thinking in various domains-philosophy, literature, city planning, linguistics, cultural anthropology, political economy, psychoanalysis, and mathematicsthis book means to undermine the overcharged and even perverse Translator's Remarks constraining power of the figure of "architecture as metaphor. ""[Karatani, Kojin, and Sabu Kohso *Architecture as Metaphor: Language, Number, Money (Writing Architecture)*. The MIT Press, 1995.]

05. "As a potential user, when encountering a new building-type, such as a hi-tech manufacturing center, we call upon our highly structured subsystem to find conceptual systems which will work to navigate this particular event. They play between the design of the building form and its structural system entails give and take modulation until the two fit together. As the building is shaped the structure is estimated until a final form where the structure and form work together. Fifth: triangulation where the technical and the conceptual combine and form a single cognition containing the characteristics of both technical and conceptual."[Fez-Barringten, Barie, and Edward Hart *Architecture: The Making of Metaphors*. Cambridge Scholars Publishing, 2012.]

06. "The architect has made an interesting decision to produce indicative drawings of the existing buildings instead of using photographs collaged with the drawing. This reduction of the three-dimensional material world into line drawings has the effect of making the robust and thickly detailed neighboring buildings look just as flat and amaterial as the proposed building. This is always a difficult choice: the context is alive in the real world while the new project hovers in a possible world."[Piedmont-Palladino, Susan C *How Drawings Work: A User-Friendly Theory*. Routledge, 2019.]

07. "That is to say that after the disappearance of utopia, architecture stripped bare is being rediscovered in the place utopia used to be. Now the postutopian critique of architecture is paving the way for the extension of problematics into different dimensions. As for recent works confronting this new phase, I can think of Denis Hollier's Against Architecture and Mark Wigley's Den-idalr Haunt: The Architecture of Deconstruction. The former criticizes Architecture as an anthropomorphic system with reference to Bataille, and the latter dissects the concept of Architecture hiding behind quotidian thinking through the analysis of Derrida."[Karatani, Kojin, and Sabu Kohso *Architecture as Metaphor: Language, Number, Money (Writing Architecture)*. The MIT Press, 1995.]

08. "This sometimes brilliant reuse of prefabricated elements gives an impression of "bricolage," to take up a word currently in fashion, not only among anthropologists but among biologists. Thought evolves by incorporating prefabricated and preexisting elements, which are given new meaning as they become integrated into a rational system. It is difficult to say what is most extraordinary about this process of integration: contingency, chance, irrationality, the very absurdity resulting from the elements used, or, on the contrary, the strange power of reason to integrate and systematize these disparate elements and to give them a new meaning."[Davidson, Arnold I. *Foucault and His Interlocutors*. University of Chicago Press Journals, 1997.]

09. "This setup is very different  from  STRUCTURALISM . Where STRUCTURE collapses to FORM. 457 458 459 460 461 462 463 464 465 The ARCHITECT Like an  IMAGE  of a butterfly. All the PARTS in beautiful details. Innocent, but dead. My friends should stay vivid. Despite all  PRECISION  and  SOPHISTICATION  the FORMS should stay  MYTHIC  and the STRUCTURES  MAGIC . Some more exercises on DIGITAL ARCHITECTURE: ELEMENTS are  CONSTITUTED   and FORMS  CONFIGURED . ELEMENTS are  STRUCTURAL . FORMS play in  SPACE . "[INPUT: 10.1515_9783035626018.pdf]

10. "In sketches the world's seamless web of interpretable objects is recast in an authoritative artistic language that fuses nature, humans, ideas, and artifacts into one harmonious syntax. Calvino's interest in paintings for inspiration, then, should not be seen as a sym- The World's Seamless Web 201 bolic gesture that spites language or literature, nor as a minor aberration in an otherwise compelling narrative. This lateral thrust is instead symptomatic of a far-ranging thinker's crossing of disciplinary boundaries while figuring the interactions between theory and critical practice."[Ricci, Franco *Painting with Words, Writing with Pictures: Word and Image in the Work of Italo Calvino*. University of Toronto Press, 2001.]

11. "Smooth and striated space are posited as ontologically different in kind and are related to one another analogically as form and content. When this happens, thought itself is identified with the formaI component. Content becomes the unintelligible material substrate. This distinction is at its starkest in Plato but remains the dominant tendency of thought in his wake. Having articulated the process by which smooth space is effaced, Deleuze and Guattari counsel caution. There is no romanticism of smooth spaces."[Adkins, Brent *Deleuze and Guattari’s A Thousand Plateaus: A Critical Introduction and Guide*. Edinburgh University Press, 2015.]

12. "Book II, Treatise on Architecture. 13. Evans, Translations from Drawing to Building and Other Essays, P 181. 14. Aren’t all these things, utterances included, already in the world?What is the humanmade world, after all, if not a conglomeration of utterances in various media?Yes, the speaker and the spoken are always already in the world, but creative acts of production do expose the space between the one making the representations and the representations themselves. And it’s that space, specifically, that demands our attention in the case of architectural representation."[Piedmont-Palladino, Susan C *How Drawings Work: A User-Friendly Theory*. Routledge, 2019.]

13. "But the power o f divergence contained within the autonomy o f the development o f technics and religions creates a new order of modes o f thinking that arise out o f the splitting o f both technics and o f religions, which are no longer at the natural level of aesthetic thought. W ith respect to these modes, aesthetic thought appears primitive; it cannot make them converge through its own exercise, and its activity serves only as a paradigm to orient and support the effort o f philosophical thinking."[Simondon, Gilbert, and Cecile Malaspina *On the Mode of Existence of Technical Objects*. Paperback. Univocal Publishing, 2017.]

14. "Matching the World on the context and the audience. It falls to the one doing the drawing to determine exactly which aspects of the world he wants to extract for representation. This is an essential, non-negotiable part of the design process, as architects usually don’t work directly on the site of their possible projects, Jersey Devil and a few other design/build practices notwithstanding."[Piedmont-Palladino, Susan C *How Drawings Work: A User-Friendly Theory*. Routledge, 2019.]

15. "In addition, the book presents a vision of the whole of thinking. In fact, it insists that the traditional way to think (an attempt to perfect and clarify representational concepts, or to extend their grasp) is only partially valid and must be unlearned. The more responsive thinking (thinking which responds to What calls for thinking) is originary. This vision of originary thinking and its partial "derivative" (representational thinking) yields an understanding of the human and of human limitations."[Mugerauer, Robert *Heidegger's Language and Thinking*. New edition. Humanity Books, 1990.]