Created: 2025-11-25 01:25:48
Origin: suggested
Selected: The shadows were growing longer, deeper and darker, as the light falling through the windows slowly faded away. The silence made the wide-open space seem even more oppressive than the encroaching night. It was growing colder, too, far more than the late evening could account for. Their breath smoked and steamed on the air before them; but only Happy could produce actual smoke rings. JC kept looking about him, convinced he could see something about to emerge from the deepening shadows, but everything remained stubbornly still and silent.[Green, Simon R. *Ghost of a Smile*. Penguin Group US, 2011.]

--- Context List ---
01. "I couldn’t remember the last time I had held anyone like this. “Are you awake?” I whispered, after a long time. “Yeah,” Cassie said. We lay very still. I could feel the air around us changing, blooming and shimmering like the air over a scorching road. My heart was speeding, or hers was banging against my chest, I’m not sure. I turned Cassie in my arms and kissed her, and after a moment she kissed me back. I know I said that I always choose the anticlimactic over the irrevocable, and yes of course what I meant was that I have always been a coward, but I lied: not always, there was that night, there was that one time."[French, Tana *In the Woods*. Reprint. 2008.]

02. "Two crows had settled on nearby lamp-posts to observe the activity below. Midori seemed drained of energy. Limp, she stared at the sky and barely spoke. "Tired?"I asked. "Not really," she said. "I just sort of let myself go limp and spaced out. First time in a long time. "She looked into my eyes, and I into hers. I put my arm around her and kissed her. The slightest twinge went through her shoulders, and then she relaxed and closed her eyes for several seconds. The early autumn sun cast the shadow of her lashes on her cheek, and I could see it trembling in outline."[Murakami, Haruki *Norwegian Wood*. Vintage, 2000.]

03. "I could feel his hand on my arm and somehow I felt I could stand there with him so close to me. “Do you hear anything?” he whispered. I listened. The silence was so complete that all I could hear was the pounding of my heart and the little hurried gasps from Ansell. I fumbled for a match and the bright flame lit the mom for a moment, then it died down and the shadows closed in on me again. In that moment of light I had seen a long starved shadow glide away from the light of the match. It was soundless, like a frightened spirit, and when the flame flickered and went out I was scared."[Chase, James Hadley *Miss Shumway Waves a Wand*. New Ed. 1977.]

04. ""Yes. "They looked at each other for a moment. The moment became a longer moment, and suddenly it was a very long moment, so long one could hardly tell where all the time was coming from. For Arthur, who could usually contrive to feel self-conscious if left alone for long enough with a Swiss Cheese plant, the moment was one of sustained revelation. He felt on the sudden like a cramped and zoo-born animal who awakes one morning to find the door to his cage hanging quietly open and the savannah stretching grey and pink to the distant rising sun, while all around new sounds are waking."[Adams, Douglas *So Long, and Thanks for All the Fish*. 1985.]

05. "The shadows were growing longer, deeper and darker, as the light falling through the windows slowly faded away. The silence made the wide-open space seem even more oppressive than the encroaching night. It was growing colder, too, far more than the late evening could account for. Their breath smoked and steamed on the air before them; but only Happy could produce actual smoke rings. JC kept looking about him, convinced he could see something about to emerge from the deepening shadows, but everything remained stubbornly still and silent."[Green, Simon R. *Ghost of a Smile*. Penguin Group US, 2011.]

06. "I remained very still, since they didn’t seem exactly steady on their feet, and I didn’t think I’d survive a tumble down these stairs. I practiced breathing evenly, grateful that I could breathe, and wondered how long I had been unconscious. I guessed a few hours at least. It was nighttime now, the sky pitch-black overhead. The city must still be in the grip of the blackout; the park was completely dark, and as we rose higher through the trees, I could see that the surrounding buildings were also completely dark."[Resnick, Laura *Unsympathetic Magic*. Penguin Group USA, 2010.]

07. "Lily set down her mug. She had an overwhelming urge to grab Cameron and hug him the way she used to when he was tiny. He was practically grown, she thought, noting his large hands and feet, the freshly razored square jaw and piercing blue eyes. Yet despite his grown-up appearance, she still detected shadows of the child he’d been. She could still see his face shining with joy on his birthday or when Crystal brought a baby sister home from the hospital. She could still remember the little-boy smell of him, like freshly turned earth, and she could still hear his choirboy voice, singing along with Disney soundtracks."[Wiggs, Susan *Table for Five*. Mira, 2006.]

08. "Gemma Dean was an East London girl, a girl with few illusions. Sid ﬁgured she could probably deal with the darkness of his past better than most. But he doubted even she could deal with the worst of it. He could barely do that. The memories were always there, lurking. He could keep them down during the day, but at night they tortured him. He barely slept anymore. When he closed his eyes, images came rushing at him—his dockworker fa- the winter rose 187 ther dying in the hospital. His mother lying in the street, her blood seeping into the cracks between the cobbles."[Donnelly, Jennifer *The Winter Rose*. Reprint. Hyperion, 2009.]

09. "The flowers and birds, faded now, had been stitched onto the quilt by Annemarie's great-grandmother many years before. "I wish I knew where my parents are," Ellen said in a small voice as she outlined one of the appliqued birds with her finger. Annemarie didn't have an answer for her. She patted Ellen's hand and they sat together silently. Through the window, they could sec a thin, round slice of moon appear through the clouds, against the pale sky. The Scandinavian night was not very dark yet, though soon, when winter came, the night would be not only dark but very long, night skies beginning in the late afternoon and lasting through morning."[Lowry, Lois *Number the Stars*. Houghton Mifflin Books for Children, 2011.]

10. "No, the image of her was still too vivid in my memory. I could still see her enclosing my penis in her mouth, her hair falling across my belly. I could still feel her warmth, her breath against me, and that helpless moment when I could do nothing but come. I could bring all this back as clearly as if it had happened only five minutes ago, and I felt sure that Naoko was still beside me, that I could just reach out and touch her. But no, she wasn't there; her flesh no longer existed in this world. Nights when it was impossible for me to sleep, images of Naoko would come back to me."[Murakami, Haruki *Norwegian Wood*. Vintage, 2000.]

11. "But then the spinning stopped and I could see other lights beyond those of the lift-that-was-a-door. I could feel the real world pressing up around me. I could see the lights that were Esmeralda. They were in motion. She was using magic, I was sure of it: filaments stretched out from her, groping through Cansino’s space towards me. She was looking for me, I realised. I opened my eyes. The lift doors were open again. My body felt clumsy and heavy. I was dizzy too."[Larbalestier, Justine *Magic's Child*. Razorbill, 2008.]

12. "She looked up and caught Kate's eye. She flushed again. “Truly, I am sorry. ” “It's okay. It was a long time ago. ” “It still hurts, though,”the other woman said, and when Kate's expression changed, repeated, “I'm sorry. There's nothing worse than unsolicited sympathy. ” “No, there isn't, but it's still okay,”Kate said, and was surprised to find that it was true. Sympathy for something other than Jack's death was almost a relief. They sat in silence. The moon was high in the sky now, and through the window some of the brighter stars could be seen, Rigel, Betelgeuse."[Stabenow, Dana *The Singing of the Dead*. G.K. Hall, 2001.]

13. "I could see her pale blue gown flash in the darkness like a fish. "Goodbye," she called in a tiny voice. Listening to the rain, I dropped into a gentle sleep. It was still raining the following morning—a fine, almost invisible autumn rain unlike the previous night's downpour. You knew it was raining only because of the ripples on puddles and the sound of dripping from the eaves. I woke to see a milky white mist enclosing the window, but as the sun rose a breeze carried the mist away, and the surrounding woods and hills began to emerge."[Murakami, Haruki *Norwegian Wood*. Vintage, 2000.]

14. "And each eyelash, each hair of her eyebrows seemed to become isolated one from the other, he could see each one in itself andr 1־337L J THE WINNERSseparately, Bettina's face was an infinite world, fixed and con¬ vulsed at the same time, before his eyes. He could not avoid her face, and her voice went on like a thick ribbon made of a sticky material whose sense was clarity itself, even though it was impossible to understand a thing, clear and definitive, an explosion of clarity and consummation, the menace finally concretized and resolved, the end of everything, the absolute presence of horror in that hour and place."[Cortazar, Julio, Elaine Kerrigan, and Alastair Reid *The Winners*. NYRB Classics, 1999.]

15. ""Can you come here for a second?""Sure," I said, starting across the road. When I got within a few feet of him, I could smell his cologne. One step closer, and every step after that, it was all I could smell, which was saying something, considering I'd spent the last hour helping Delia peel garlic to make hummus and was pretty fragrant myself. "What's going on?"He turned around and started down the driveway toward his house, walking at such a fast, frenzied pace that I found myself struggling to keep up with him."[Dessen, Sarah *The Truth About Forever*. Speak, 2006.]