Created: 2025-12-26 17:34:39
Origin: suggested
Selected: window/wall 43 windows demonstrating different construction techniques were also capable of joining parts of the landscape together: foreground, roads, and trees with background mountains. This joining was neither direct nor traditional, however. With the vertical window, the connections between inside and outside were naturalized in at least two ways: (1) by paralleling the form of the window with the upright posture of the viewer’s body, and (2) by instituting an inhabitable space in the thickness of the window wall, making an experiential threshold between street and room. 8 The horizontal window, on the contrary, instituted a virtual connection and a physical separation between landscape and interior; its thin glass plane served as a mechanism for framing the panorama of nature, rendering it artiﬁcial on and through the surface of the ribbon window.[Leatherbarrow, David, and Mohsen Mostafavi *Surface Architecture*. 2002.]

--- Context List ---
01. "window/wall 43 windows demonstrating different construction techniques were also capable of joining parts of the landscape together: foreground, roads, and trees with background mountains. This joining was neither direct nor traditional, however. With the vertical window, the connections between inside and outside were naturalized in at least two ways: (1) by paralleling the form of the window with the upright posture of the viewer’s body, and (2) by instituting an inhabitable space in the thickness of the window wall, making an experiential threshold between street and room. 8 The horizontal window, on the contrary, instituted a virtual connection and a physical separation between landscape and interior; its thin glass plane served as a mechanism for framing the panorama of nature, rendering it artiﬁcial on and through the surface of the ribbon window."[Leatherbarrow, David, and Mohsen Mostafavi *Surface Architecture*. 2002.]

02. "To the interior, smooth wall inside-surfaces create pure interior space, while to the city, smooth wall outside-surfaces definite clear open spaces. So the designer abandoned all decoration on both sides of wall, try to create the atmosphere of pure spaces, in order to highlight the art works at the same time."[Yu, Jasmine *Museum Display Design*. Design Media Publishing Limited, 2012.]

03. "The transparent surface forms the middle level, which is also the largest and becomes the horizon of viewing. The result of this new treatment of the wall is that two different readings are possible: on the outside the glass wall reads as a continuous surface, and on the inside as an interior horizon."[Leatherbarrow, David, and Mohsen Mostafavi *Surface Architecture*. 2002.]

04. "It should be recognized that glass deﬂections are perceived more by the distortion of reﬂected images as the glass bends and ﬂexes out of plane, rather than by actual direct perception of glass movement normal to its original plane. A frequently encountered design concept is the ‘wall of glass’, with no structural members obstructing the view. This concept is seldom achievable without major innovations."[Behr, R. A. *Architectural Glass to Resist Seismic and Extreme Climatic Events*. CRC Press, 2009.]

05. "In the context of this chapter, shaping a wall in plan presents opportunities for architectural enrichment, as illustrated at the Mönchengladbach Museum. Highly regarded for the qualities of its interior spaces and urban setting, an exterior gallery wall undulates (Fig. 4. 10). The sinuous wall imbues one gallery interior with special character and outside, the wall’s serpentine geometry appears as a natural extension of the curvilinear paths and brick walls that lead up the hillside to the museum."[Charleson, Andrew *Structure As Architecture: A Source Book For Architects And Structural Engineers*. Architectural Press, 2005.]

06. "As Scheerbart observed, the Gothic cathedral, in which the wall was dissolved by light to become a “light filter,” was Taut’s “prelude” (Taut, Glashaus) (cf. Figure 6). The nineteenth century’s “ferrous and concrete constructions” challenged the definition of rooms based upon the law of gravity – as an enclosure surrounded by solid walls – and gave momentum to the idea of using glass once again as the actual space-cladding element that could achieve a nearly Gothic manner of enclosing space (Taut, “Das Bauen” 35)."[Coleman, Nathaniel *Imagining and Making the World: Reconsidering Architecture and Utopia*. Peter Lang, 2011.]

07. "Depending upon its configuration, structure either inhibits or facilitates the ingress of light. In a building with perimeter structure that does not exclude natural light, structure relates to light in one of four modes – as a source of light where, for example, light passes through a roof truss to enter a space; to maximize light by minimizing the shadow effect of 168 STRUCTURE AS ARCHITECTURE structure; to modify light by reflecting and diffusing it; and occasionally, for light to affect our perception of structure."[Charleson, Andrew *Structure As Architecture: A Source Book For Architects And Structural Engineers*. Architectural Press, 2005.]

08. "Large windows help interior and garden spaces meet and blend. Structures such as glass stairs also open up the interior space, as well as giving it a sense of magic. At the same time the strong horizontals and verticals—including glazing bars, balcony rails, and radiator pipes—provide a sense of containment, like the black lines in a Mondrian painting."[Wilkinson, Philip *50 Architecture Ideas You Really Need to Know*. Quercus Publishing Plc, 2010.]

09. "Light beams are cast on the furniture, floor and frosted glass board. In such an environment, guests would feel as if they were in a fantastic space of the future. 室内空间简洁而流畅，接待台以及后面的装饰墙的边 角都做了弧形处理，去掉了冷硬的棱角，巨大的黑白 装饰画布满整面装饰墙，充满时尚气息，在圆形立 柱、天花板和地面上，特殊的纹理为空间增添了生 气，从天花板垂落的巨大的圆柱形灯具同样给人惊 喜，灯光从天花板照射在家具、地面和磨砂玻璃的指 示牌上，使客人感觉仿佛置身于奇妙的未来空间中。 244 2 3 1. In the black-and-white space, the painting on the wall becomes the focal point 2."[Xie, Yeal *Lobby & Lounge = 酒店大堂与休闲区*. LST Publishing House, 2011.]

10. "N  Cabin R I G H T Tight-knot cedar paneling sets off the white plumbing fixtures in the couple’s bathroom. B E L OW Glass corners even in the bedroom reinforce the interconnectedness of sheltered space and nature. The design process created solid blocks of more private spaces and an open pavilion of social space exposed to the view. The expanses of glass are the defining feature of the exterior, punctuated by walls sheathed in cedar."[Mulfinger, Dale *The Family Cabin: Inspiration for Camps, Cottages, and Cabins*. Newtown, CT: Taunton Press, 2017.]

11. "In this majestic but at the same time introverted building, the mechanical systems for environmental control, heating and cooling and forced air circulation are as central as its structural conception. Tubular glass is a fundamental design material, and Wright used it to create non-diaphanous membranes. Here the combined use of natural and artificial light lends strength to the project, transforming the glass-prism from an illuminated body to a light source."[Le Brun, Nicolas *Building knowledge, construction history. 2 vols. Proceedings of the 6th International Congress on Construction History (6ICCH 2018), July 9-13, 2018, Brussels, Belgium*. London: CRC Press (U.K.), 2018.]

12. "In addition to avoiding the overuse of artiﬁcial light and the heat generated by artiﬁcial light ﬁxtures, rooms with daylight also beneﬁt their occupants, who appreciate experiencing the dynamic qualities of natural light as it changes throughout the day. In general, light ﬁxtures are designed not to be noticed; however, designs that conceal the light source limit the perceptible qualities of ﬁre as light."[Yglesias, Caren *The Innovative Use of Materials in Architecture and Landscape Architecture: History, Theory and Performance*. McFarland, 2014.]

13. "If the Glashaus is read in light of this painting, the aim of the colored prismatic glass wall, which wraps its prominent dome, was to remove any feeling of heaviness, of earthliness, by transforming the solid surfaces of the structure into a weightless layer of colored light, like a foil. However, the physical quality of the result is more than a thin, transparent diaphragm; rather, even in his pursuit of dematerialization, Taut favored thick, colored diaphanous walls that absorbed and stored light."[Coleman, Nathaniel *Imagining and Making the World: Reconsidering Architecture and Utopia*. Peter Lang, 2011.]

14. "Le Corbusier had considered painting some of these splays and this project is illustrated in a drawing of the south wall interior elevation made with glued coloured paper; however, using light to create coloured reflections seemed preferable to him and this is thus the approach he adopted. Colour can also modify an architectural space or indeed completely transform it."[Pauly, Daniele *Le Corbusier: the Chapel at Ronchamp*. Birkhäuser Architecture, 2008.]

15. "The gradients occur across the wall between the insulation dry by allowing moisture to evap- building consists of a black base of integrally two zones. Adequate wall cavity airflow and orate. Mechanical shades located in this colored concrete supporting a monolithic drainage are not provided and the interior of cavity in front of any windows further reduce block enveloped by opaque, transparent, the wall is inaccessible."[Killory, Christine *Details in Contemporary Architecture*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2007.]

16. "To borrow light from this source, the architects added a pair of narrow interior windows on the wall separating the bathroom from the hallway. And to balance this source of natural light, they installed daylight-temperature fluorescent bulbs in a light cove tucked behind the tub. To connect different parts of the house visually, the architects used the same wall tile in all of the bathrooms as well as for the kitchen backsplash."[Works, Word *New bathroom ideas that work*. Place of publication not identified: Taunton Press, 2013.]

17. "A long glass and timber wall inclined, like those of airport control towers, to reduce reflections, separates piazza from atrium, so depending on your angle of observation and that of the sun, external and internal spaces flow together visually. The atrium’s entrance hall is accessed through porches that penetrate the transparent wall; each is lit in a different colour at night to emphasize the variety of uses within, but anyone can use any porch."[*The Architectural Review - Sellection  2002-2005* 2011.]

18. "In contrast to the Curtain Wall House, also in Tokyo, where white curtains provide an outer skin, enclosing a terrace around the glass sliders that protect the interior, the white polyester curtains of the Doi house are hung within the shutters and billow out only when they are 2 1 The cramped urban context showing the house sealed by its glass shutters."[*The Architectural Review - Sellection  2002-2005* 2011.]

19. "Existing buildings being upgraded for more sustainable operations might consider adding bundles of ﬁberoptic cables rather than inserting light wells (with numerous associated structural complications) to bring natural daylight to interior spaces. In the landscape, minimizing artiﬁcial light spill reduces excessive light pollution and is a goal of sustainably designed projects that support the “night skies” movement (Thompson and Sorvig 2008)."[Yglesias, Caren *The Innovative Use of Materials in Architecture and Landscape Architecture: History, Theory and Performance*. McFarland, 2014.]

20. "It’s used in a bookshelf at the bottom of the stairs and in the office outside this bathroom in the form of cabinets and desks. The continuity of materials helps make different spaces feel connected. 132 Closet Borrowing Light from the Room Next Door Soffit above Glass partition Mirror cabinet Bath Interior window Covered walk Office Desk with cabinets above above • Wall-mounted faucets over a concrete vanity top make for a clean, above • A window of opaque glass between the bathroom and an uncluttered look."[Works, Word *New bathroom ideas that work*. Place of publication not identified: Taunton Press, 2013.]

21. "The main functions of the external enclosures is to resist the passage of solar radiation, control the passage of light, air and sound both inwards and outwards. Where the percentage of opaque wall/curtain walling to window is carefully controlled it can be seen that there are different values for wall types in hot and dry climates. In Figure 5. 50, Sing Saini (1980) shows the temperature ranges for both timber wall/insulated roof and 9 inch (215 mm) brickwork/ insulated roof constructions in a hot and dry tropical region."[Cotgrave, Alison., Michael Farragher, and Mike Riley *Building design, construction and performance in tropical climates*. Routledge, 2018.]

22. "Everything is pointed, and all the molding profiles match so that the entire structure is harmonious. At wall level the spaces between the skeleton are mostly filled with glass; up in the ceiling, the parts between the ribs are filled with stone. The resulting light-filled interior is enclosed in a structure of almost magical airiness. But there was a problem."[Wilkinson, Philip *50 Architecture Ideas You Really Need to Know*. Quercus Publishing Plc, 2010.]

23. "mainly as a cladding material over a build- at floor and window lines and at any wall The inner skin of the museum consists of ing with relatively few windows. Depending penetration. When there is a humidity imbal- insulated stud-wall construction covered by on the light conditions, the museum vari- ance between inside and outside, the water perforated galvanized steel sheets and dou- ously appears to be opaque gray, filmy vapor from high concentration areas ble-glazed windows."[Killory, Christine *Details in Contemporary Architecture*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2007.]

24. "Studies for the hyperbolic paraboloids, 1955 (Rebecchini Archive, Rome). Figure 5. The spectacular rearward glass wall (Lafuente Archive, Rome). These pillars present two points where their section shrinks—one level with the parterre and the other with the cantilevering deck—a feature necessary to guarantee the structure stays flexible. This last necessity is also what prompted the decision to completely separate the glass wall from the reinforced concrete structure, through the positioning of freely-sliding universal joints between them (Fig."[Le Brun, Nicolas *Building knowledge, construction history. 2 vols. Proceedings of the 6th International Congress on Construction History (6ICCH 2018), July 9-13, 2018, Brussels, Belgium*. London: CRC Press (U.K.), 2018.]

25. "To a certain extent, this characterization is based on the assumption that Wall 7025 not only marks the east end of the room but also of the building. This judgement is based on the fact that Wall 7025 bonds with outer South Wall 7026, even though it could not be ascertained whether both walls are footed on Bedrock D31:36; bedrock was only exposed below north Wall 7024, which also bonds with Wall 7025."[Daviau, P. M. Michele, Paul-Eugene Dion, Ronald G. V. Hancock, David Hemsworth, Margaret A. Judd, Ryan Defonzo, and Douglas W. Schnurrenberger *Excavations at Tall Jawa, Jordan, Volume 1: The Iron Age Town*. Brill Academic Publishers, 2003.]