Created: 2025-12-26 01:44:49
Origin: searched
Selected: I would like, however, to use the term “objective” or “shared” to denote something that is a little harder to get at than physicists’ time; namely, a widely shared form of subjective time – any widely shared form, regardless of the specific content or structure.[O’Brien, Dan (ed.) *Gardening: Philosophy for Everyone- Cultivating Wisdom*. Hoboken: Wiley-Blackwell, 2011.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Here’s what I do remember: on the understanding they paid it back, bank interest Being bathed every night by my mother, towelled dry included, within a stipulated time. After moving in, there and helped into my pyjamas. Of snuggling up in coarse was only a few bob over to last until my father’s next payday. cotton sheets still smelling of the sun. Of being read Our new home was a tiny fibro box on a generous block."[*Australian House & Garden* 2017.]

02. "I would like, however, to use the term “objective” or “shared” to denote something that is a little harder to get at than physicists’ time; namely, a widely shared form of subjective time – any widely shared form, regardless of the specific content or structure."[O’Brien, Dan (ed.) *Gardening: Philosophy for Everyone- Cultivating Wisdom*. Hoboken: Wiley-Blackwell, 2011.]

03. "It also costs – in time and money – so sometimes “that’ll do” becomes your own version of perfect. My husband calls it “adding to the story” of the house, which involves creating a narrative behind every oddity, obvious difference, hiccup or seemingly questionable decision. But honestly, most of the time, no one will notice these things unless you mention them."[*Australian House & Garden* 2017.]

04. "Miraculously, despite the cramped he sketched and wrote notes about. space, regular blackouts, housekeeping disagreements Apart from the tension that surfaced from time to time and two fighting toddlers, the adult friendship survived. (many years later I realised these bouts of air-thickening I have no memory of that year, but tension that made my chest feel I was never conscious the child and I never did get along heavy were down to my father’s of the smallness of our and our battle raged on every time postwar moodiness and the sheer our families met up."[*Australian House & Garden* 2017.]

05. "Delicate uneven texture that contradicts with the mirror accentuates the silhouette of the arch. 1. 拱门的设计让人宛如置身欧洲皇宫 2. 空间的色调十分温暖 3. 头部SPA室天花板上的灯光犹如点点繁星 4. 开敞的空间让人感到舒适和放松 5. 前台 6. 灯光设计美观又实用 7. 沙龙入口 8. 镜子在沙龙设计中具有神奇的效果 11 12 10   2 1 7 6 3 4 124 - 125 5 1. Entrance 2. Reception 3. Cloak room 4. Head SPA room 5. VIP room 6. Shampoo area 7. Arrangement area 8. Cutting area 9."[Chang, Catherine *Beauty Salons*. Liaoning Science & Technology Publishing House, Profession Design Press, 2011.]

06. "When was the last time you were naked outdoors?a. Never b. Skinny dipping at night two summers ago c. Making love on the beach with people picnicking the next sand dune over d. Spent a week at a swinger's nudist resort this summer e. Sigh, I keep getting arrested SCORING MOSTLY As Repressed: Thinks sex is distasteful. doesn't recognize any fetishes or fantasies, thinks genitals are ugly."[Hunt, Jennifer, and Dan Baritchi *1,001 best places to have sex in America : a when, where, and how guide*. Avon, Mass: Adams Media, 2010.]

07. "In addition, most works in this group represent sequences of events that take place in chronological time. They tell stories. Usually, the time taken by the performance differs from the time taken by the events it represents. A play that lasts two hours might represent events that occur over twenty years. A dance that lasts five minutes might represent the week-long life of a butterfly."[O’Brien, Dan (ed.) *Gardening: Philosophy for Everyone- Cultivating Wisdom*. Hoboken: Wiley-Blackwell, 2011.]

08. "Table DIRECTOR Glass Block Operable Partition ADMIN. ASST. GUEST SUITE WOMEN Conf. Table MEN Soffit ASST. DIR. SEMINAR A/V Monitor Coat Hooks NINE INTERVIEW STATIONS WORK ROOM Sem’r Equip. RECEPTION Lit’r Rack WAITING VESTIBULE Light Shelve Above Illus. 6–11 Rough plan revised Revisions After going through the long and often difficult process to arrive at a revised rough floor plan, you may look at the result and believe that the current solution is too far removed from the best possible solution to consider it acceptable."[Karlen, Mark, and Rob Fleming *Space Planning Basics*. 4th ed. Wiley, 2016.]

09. "The book is written, chapter one to the end, in regular progress through the years. Even if you go in for sleights of hand like flashbacks or Tristram Shandy, there is no way of conveying in words the difference between child time and grown-up time, and the different pace of time in the different stages of an adult’s life. A year before you are thirty is a very different year from the sixty-year-old’s year. When scientists try to get us to understand the real importance of the human race, they say something like, “if the story of the earth is twenty-four hours long, then humanity’s part in it occupies the last minute of that day. ” Similarly, in the story of a life, if it is being told true to time as actually experienced, then I’d say seventy per cent of the book would take you to age ten."[O’Brien, Dan (ed.) *Gardening: Philosophy for Everyone- Cultivating Wisdom*. Hoboken: Wiley-Blackwell, 2011.]

10. "My point is these projects aren’t about sacrificing something else in favor of doing them. In the long term, it’s much more about time management than compromise. Granted, when you make that initial push, maybe you’ll have to give the bar the skip, and spend a little less time fucking around on Facebook, but once it’s done, then the world’s your oyster again, and you can lean against your beautifully upholstered headboard, basking in the luxury of your well-appointed bed with all its euro shams and throw pillows, and troll Pinterest until you’ve forgotten whether you love or loathe everything."[Salway, Christina, and Monica Pedersen *Home improvement projects for the busy & broke: how to get your $h!t together and live like an adult*. Skyhorse Publishing, 2016.]

11. "I want this stage in life to last forever!But realistically, I need to just celebrate a job well done as I begin to let go and release my sons into the world. In this book, I have tried to capture each of my men individually at this moment in time so that, later in life, I’ll be able to reflect upon these happy days. 80 1 ONE. Cut cardstock. Open one of the compact disc pocket folders and measure the cover panel from the left edge to the right edge."[Carroll, Shari *Layers: Inspired Collage for Paper Projects with Meaning*. 2006.]

12. "She loved people and always had a great time. Mom and I had a lot of fun doing it together. There are a lot of parties and a lot of shopping. And the moms get invited to everything. So every time there was a luncheon, Mom and I would go to lunch together. And the parents really do a lot of the partying, too. A lot of people who debuted with me had gone to Newman, Sacred Heart, Country Day and St. Martins."[O'Neill, Rosary *New Orleans Carnival Krewes: The History, Spirit and Secrets of Mardi Gras*. The History Press, 2014.]

13. "I think I only went twice. This was the first time. ” SHAME DOODLE “This once-proud character has made a terrible error of judgement that will stay with him forever. ” SHYNESS DOODLE “Spectrum Live 1 didn’t have a lot of attendees, so I had plenty of time to doodle. ” ANXIETY DOODLE “Given the chance, this chap would like to hide away from the world. ” “I challenged myself to draw at a local coffee shop every week."[ImagineFX *Sketchbooks Vol. 3*. Future Publishing, 2016.]

14. "This is also between two access points to the Central Sewers [U2. C]. A B 1 2 Doors to Camp McCarran [2. 19] Manhole to Central Sewers [U2. C] New Vegas Sign [2. S17] Ground Floor Room There scattered Beer, Chems, and a few Bark Scorpions to quickly get rid of before you turn woozy. Read the Threatening Note on the table. It’s suitably intimidating. • Eyeglasses and Beer • Note: Threatening Note El Rey Motel Exterior (Upper) Sales Office • Sunset Sarsaparilla Crate Items (2) 17 1 (Upper) Executive Office A Broken Personal Assistant lies in this room with a hole in the floor, leading to the sealed storage, and four tool cabinets."[Games, Prima *Fallout New Vegas*. Prima Games, 2010.]

15. "Lester was their third son who slipped on the ice and broke his hip the day before Christmas in 1966; a few months later he could not walk at all. A bone in his leg deteriorated at the same time that his mind began to crumble. "I guess that was the first time I'd stayed away from home in a long, long time," said Chester. His remark was like an echo from the distant past, for we all knew that Ruth had twice run away from their stormy marriage, leaving some of her children behind in her haste and hiding from Chester for six months the second time."[Jones, Michael Owen *Craftsman of the Cumberlands: Tradition and Creativity*. University Press of Kentucky, 2003.]