Created: 2025-12-13 15:20:04
Origin: searched
Selected: The twentieth century saw the golden age of the railway being supplanted ﬁrst by that of the automobile and then of the aeroplane, forcing yet another re-evaluation of the bridge. New social ideologies and philosophies, new psychological and artistic paradigms emerged around and through the bridge. New paradigms of design and computation, new construction practices and new materials evolved within the shifting contexts of economics, planning and organization, patterns of everyday life and changing global relationships.[Bishop, Peter *Bridge (Reaktion Books - Objekt)*. 2008.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Given a new point of departure in which we have left the boxes behind, this section of the book establishes a new ground for thinking about the computational along new forms. These forms build on digital elements as part of new interactive textures. Further on, these textures are part of larger architectural installations, which in turn are part of larger design matters including e. g. city planning, and ultimately the design of our environment."[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

02. "In general, this kind of work promises to impact architecture on a variety  of levels. First, by making the designer’s workflow more integrated: from  conception, to representation, to material realization as data manipulated within  the software environment will be directly employed in the design stage—for  example, through rapid manufacturing. On a disciplinary level the implications  of moving from the frictionless and material-less space of current software  204 ﻿Digital Architecture Beyond Computers to a voxel-based one are profound and could mark a radical departure from  boundary-defined architecture firmly relying on geometrical reductivism toward  more continuous, processual notion of space."[INPUT: Bottazzi - 2020 - Digital architecture beyond computers fragments of a cultural history of computational design.pdf]

03. "Following this simple model as outlined in Figure 82 I then challenge this set of concepts from an interaction design perspective (arrow 2) in an attempt to refine concepts with roots in both the field of architecture, and in interaction design, i. e. an architectural register for interaction (arrow 3). Through this interlinking of architecture and interaction design we seek to establish a foundation for interactive architecture in which no separation of digital material is made apart from other materials that constitute parts of our built environment."[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

04. "If reviewing the work done in-between these two strands of research, i. e. work specifically conducted to address “interactive architecture” as such we find some good examples including Bullivant´s work on responsive environments (Bullivant, 2006), interactive architecture (Bullivant, 2005), and interactive design environments (Bullivant, 2007). Further on, Spiller´s work on reflexive architecture (Spiller, 2002) and Kolarevic & Malkawi´s work on performative architecture (2005) adds to our understanding of this phenomenon."[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

05. "The possibilities provided by rapid-prototyping machines to combine  different types of materials can only be exploited through the development of  software interfaces that can directly work with material densities. Although this  area of research is still at an embryonic stage, examples such as Monolith—a  piece of software designed by Andrew Payne and Panagiotis Michalatos— begin to reveal such potentials as this modeling tool allows designers to work  in a voxel space and therefore include material densities—albeit represented  through color channels—from the outset. 10 A multi-material approach to design  represents a very interesting area of research largely debated among architects  and designers, which is also likely to grow in importance in the near future."[INPUT: Bottazzi - 2020 - Digital architecture beyond computers fragments of a cultural history of computational design.pdf]

06. "This was one of the first explicit attempts by social scientists (in collaboration with computer scientists) to draw out such a high-level conceptual structure relevant to design. Because this work is very sirnilar to the Locales Framework, I will discuss it further in Chapter 9. It is interesting to see this pattern repeated when social scientists and designers work closely together, as with the more recent MIME project 15 looking at media in the domestic environment (Diggins et al. , 2001). The ethnographers and designers developed a structured representation for data called a Grounded 40 LOCALES FRAMEWORK Innovation Map, organising data into concepts around design-relevant nodes of time, people, things, and space."[(auth.), Geraldine Fitzpatrick *The Locales Framework: Understanding and Designing for Wicked Problems*. Springer Netherlands, 2003.]

07. "Critics of Patrik Schumacher’s Parametricism still identify similar  inconsistencies, as this new movement is presented both as a new aesthetic  language—Parametricism as a style, a Morettian expression of new societal  problems—and a new method for design and research. The tension here lies in  the fact that parametric modeling is not inherently biased toward any particular  group of forms: both a curvaceous and a rectilinear design can be generated  parametrically and yet most of the parametric production concentrates on  organic forms (Frazer 2016, pp."[INPUT: Bottazzi - 2020 - Digital architecture beyond computers fragments of a cultural history of computational design.pdf]

08. "The design difficulty is further reinforced when we look at experiences with other spatially-based systems and studies of work. A main argument of this book is that place defined by interactional needs rather than space is a more appropriate metaphor. But how do we design systems that have place, not space, as the driving metaphor, that take account of the whole environment in wh ich the work gets done or is to get done?How do we use the output of ethnographie studies for the purposes of design based on a notion of place?"[(auth.), Geraldine Fitzpatrick *The Locales Framework: Understanding and Designing for Wicked Problems*. Springer Netherlands, 2003.]

09. "Such design knowledge within the CSCW community is only beginning to evolve. As weIl as building upon a shared history of design, there is also a potential role for more principled guidelines to underpin the substance of design than intuition alone. The second way that the Locales Framework was used for design was for the generic CSCW toolkit environment called Orbit. The framework facilitated a paradigm shift away from workflow or space as an underlying systems metaphor to a metaphor of place."[(auth.), Geraldine Fitzpatrick *The Locales Framework: Understanding and Designing for Wicked Problems*. Springer Netherlands, 2003.]

10. "With it has come the opportunity for longer spans and the enclosure of larger column-free spaces with more efficient lighter weight structures. This process will continue with the development of new materials and structural types. Surely we as architects and members of the design team cannot afford to ignore it. It is our task to process the new technology: we must make architecture out of it. 110 6 The Future 'Modem architecture offers architects an extraordinary opportunity to evolve new forms and materials."[(Auth.), Chris Wilkinson *Supersheds. The Architecture of Long-Span, Large-Volume Buildings*. Butterworth Architecture, 1991.]

11. "The twentieth century saw the golden age of the railway being supplanted ﬁrst by that of the automobile and then of the aeroplane, forcing yet another re-evaluation of the bridge. New social ideologies and philosophies, new psychological and artistic paradigms emerged around and through the bridge. New paradigms of design and computation, new construction practices and new materials evolved within the shifting contexts of economics, planning and organization, patterns of everyday life and changing global relationships."[Bishop, Peter *Bridge (Reaktion Books - Objekt)*. 2008.]

12. "Active research in general purpose user interfaces is now focusing tools for automatically building widget based applications from high-level descriptions. The pioneering work in this area was done in the middle 1980s by Apollo Computer Corporation in what is now known as their MOTIF system. Recently, Apollo has agreed to work on making this technology widely available pOSSibly through a specification that may become industry standard. Current work focuses on specifying interfaces using a combination of a special purpose language description for specifying the interaction and control of widgets and interactive editors for layout and prototyping."[Barnes, Timothy J., David Harrison, A. Richard Newton, and Rick L. Spickelmier (auth.) *Electronic CAD Frameworks*. Springer US, 1992.]

13. "Therefore new grammars or structures often make, in the beginning, the impression of absurdity. It is not finding new words or new symbols, but to give new meanings to old words and symbols. The creative aspect is that one moves in this type of behavior on the meta-level. We are not learning new signs or symbols, but new rules to control those symbols. This means that we are taking here a meta-standpoint in relation to the previous level of learning, the semantic conditioned reflexes."[Dutton, Denis, and Michael Krausz (eds.) *The Concept Of Creativity Science Art*. Springer Netherlands, 1981.]

14. "On the other hand creativity does indeed imply an activity or restructuring which results in new meanings for old words and symbols. The sensitivity to problems is always bestowing a new dimension on previous networks of symbols. This fourth level of learning processes consists of more than problem solving. More is required than just solving problems. One is in need of new rules for the solution of problems. One is often even in need of turning existing solutions into new problems."[Dutton, Denis, and Michael Krausz (eds.) *The Concept Of Creativity Science Art*. Springer Netherlands, 1981.]

15. "Data management has been the most studied aspect of a CAD Framework to date and Katz [KAT85] presents an excellent review of the topic. Initially, data management consisted of basic file system protections on groups of files with occasional archival 52 CAD Frameworks: Integration Technology for CAD backup. Eventually it was recognized that the features offered by convention DBMS's might help in the management of design data. The results from this work are mixed, but the work led to the development of specialized databases for design data employing many of the features found in conventional database management systems."[Barnes, Timothy J., David Harrison, A. Richard Newton, and Rick L. Spickelmier (auth.) *Electronic CAD Frameworks*. Springer US, 1992.]