Created: 2025-12-26 17:25:32
Origin: searched
Selected: From this perspective, structure is potentially an important architectural element – both as a source of light, where light passes through it or illuminates it, and also as controller of how and where light enters a space. When stone and masonry load-bearing wall construction dominated previous periods of architectural history, openings for light could be considered the absence of structure.[Charleson, Andrew *Structure As Architecture: A Source Book For Architects And Structural Engineers*. Architectural Press, 2005.]

--- Context List ---
01. "The signiﬁcance of a wall’s threshold qualities notwithstanding, a wall is empirically also a screen, or cover; a function of particular importance to medieval and premodern urban Arab-Muslim culture, with its traditional enclaustration and veiling of women."[O'Meara, Simon *Space and Muslim Urban Life: At the Limits of the Labyrinth of Fez (Culture and Civilization in the Middle East)*. 2007.]

02. "screen wall A movable or fixed device, especially a framed construction designed to divide, conceal, or protect, but not to support. serpentine wall A wall with a plan in the shape of a wavy line with alternating arcs of circles. shear wall A wall that resists shear forces in its own plane due to wind or earthquake forces. spandrel wall A wall built on the extrados of an arch, filling the spandrels."[Ernest., Burden *Illustrated Dictionary of Architecture*. 2017.]

03. "wall 2001 As thin as possible: fantasy of the  two-dimensional wall, sketched in 3D by  SANAA for the Kunstlinie Almere,  Netherlands. PAGE 3 WALL The meaning of the wall is just as diverse as the uses of vertical surface can be, but there are at least two essential  functions: providing structure and dividing space. The two can be separated, and thus the category of 'wall' divides into  two: the bearing wall, separating roof from ground; and the partition wall, organizing movement within the resulting  container. The former, it would seem, is as stable as the human need for shelter; the latter as changeable as our forms  of sociability. "[INPUT: wall.pdf]

04. "PAGE 20 WOVEN WALL The ur-wall is not, according to  19th century architectural theorist  Gottfried Semper, a mud or stone  line of enormous and reassuring  heft, but an artful, woven partition.  Hanging loosely, perhaps flapping,  the woven screen generates-   and, crucially, symbolizes -   the division and organization of  activities within the primitive dwelling. The woven "wall" is an enabler  of civilization; the thick structural  wall merely a defender of it. "[INPUT: wall.pdf]

05. "exterior wall A wall that is part of the envelope of a building thereby having one face exposed to the weather or to earth. fire wall Any fire-resistant wall that separates one building from another or that subdivides a large building into smaller spaces; it is usually continuous from the foundations extending above the roof. foundation wall A wall below, or partly below grade, to provide support for the exterior walls or other parts of the structure."[Ernest., Burden *Illustrated Dictionary of Architecture*. 2017.]

06. "(I) Earthworks heaped against the outer face of the footings of a curtain wall founded on rock or secure terrain help the wall resist the outward pressure from the accumulated earth and debris which it encloses-i. e. structurally they act as the "toe" of a retaining wall. Also since the earthworks interpose material against the lower face of the wall where none previously existed they may have some military virtues as an obstacle to breaching."[Wright, G.R.H. *Ancient Building in South Syria and Palestine*. Leiden: Brill, 1985.]

07. "Since this wall had an inner screen wall (see below) and, therefore, no marble revetment laid directly against its surface, these marble chips or plugs could not have provided a key for the application of mortar bedding for the revetment, nor was the screen wall of a kind which required a mortar bed. For the reverse of this procedure, see McDonald, p. 146, pl."[Biers, Jane C. *The Great Bath on the Lechaion Road (Corinth vol.17)*. Volume XVII. 1985.]

08. "It should be noted that from limited excavations it is not necessarily clear whether the primary purpose of~ heavy wall at the crest of a slope is a defensive city wall or a retaining wall, a terrace wall (cf. Neolithic jericho v. Duj; pp. 66-67. EB Megiddo v. TA rg77, pp. 79 ff. ). In fact very often a wall must have served both 76, 78 URBAN FOR TIFICA TIONS-W ALLS 86 purposes-acting as a retaining wall in its lower parts and as a defensive wall above (cf."[Wright, G.R.H. *Ancient Building in South Syria and Palestine*. Leiden: Brill, 1985.]

09. "Wall flashings and a means of draining moisture from the wall are also required. The wall drainage system, which is left to the discretion of the wall designer, may involve a prefabricated drainage mesh, or vertical ridges or furring that create pathways outboard of the WRB, or simply natural separations between WRB layers to enable water to travel to the wall flashings."[de Leon, Diaz, and Alicia E *Forensic Engineering 2015 : performance of the built environment : proceedings of the Seventh Congress on Forensic Engineering, November 15-18, 2015, Miami, Florida*. American Society of Civil Engineers, 2015.]

10. "To a certain extent, this characterization is based on the assumption that Wall 7025 not only marks the east end of the room but also of the building. This judgement is based on the fact that Wall 7025 bonds with outer South Wall 7026, even though it could not be ascertained whether both walls are footed on Bedrock D31:36; bedrock was only exposed below north Wall 7024, which also bonds with Wall 7025."[Daviau, P. M. Michele, Paul-Eugene Dion, Ronald G. V. Hancock, David Hemsworth, Margaret A. Judd, Ryan Defonzo, and Douglas W. Schnurrenberger *Excavations at Tall Jawa, Jordan, Volume 1: The Iron Age Town*. Brill Academic Publishers, 2003.]

11. "Functional Analysis of the ‘Wavy’ Enclosure Wall."[Wright, G.R.H. *Ancient Building Technology, Volume 3: Construction (2 vols.)*. Brill, 2009.]

12. "In the context of this chapter, shaping a wall in plan presents opportunities for architectural enrichment, as illustrated at the Mönchengladbach Museum. Highly regarded for the qualities of its interior spaces and urban setting, an exterior gallery wall undulates (Fig. 4. 10). The sinuous wall imbues one gallery interior with special character and outside, the wall’s serpentine geometry appears as a natural extension of the curvilinear paths and brick walls that lead up the hillside to the museum."[Charleson, Andrew *Structure As Architecture: A Source Book For Architects And Structural Engineers*. Architectural Press, 2005.]

13. "1994:150, fig. 3). In Building 700 at Tall Jawa, a stone pier wall supports one end of a lintel over a doorway between Rooms 712 and R713 (see below). This same construction technique was used at Busayra, where a “pier” wall (90) bonds with the outer wall, and serves as a cross wall between two rooms (Bienkowki 2001: fig. 3; 2002: fig. 4. 5). While this technique is also used in casemate wall systems, what is of interest here is its use in domestic structures."[Daviau, P. M. Michele, Paul-Eugene Dion, Ronald G. V. Hancock, David Hemsworth, Margaret A. Judd, Ryan Defonzo, and Douglas W. Schnurrenberger *Excavations at Tall Jawa, Jordan, Volume 1: The Iron Age Town*. Brill Academic Publishers, 2003.]

14. "3. Translate the following word combinations: interior finish, interior wall, sufficient weight, additional services, mill building, exterior wall, covering material, storey-height wall panel, strength of materials, strength test, divide into classes, bearing wall construction, consist of elements, dwelling house, mere enclosure, protect the building, strength of the construction, protect the foundation B."[Г.И., Железнякова *Civil Engineering Часть 1*. 2017.]

15. "Cavity walls. This type of construction is now very common and is generally preferred to solid wall construction for many types of buildings, especially houses. A cavity wall is usually an external wall. It consists of two separate walls of brickwall, having a cavity between, and connected together by metal ties. 62 Notes: bar стержень cavity wall bond retaining wall подпорная стенка сцепление longitudinal продольный пустотелая (полая) стена shear stress срезывающее напряжение tensile растягивающий tie wire проволока weave - wove – woven плеcти 63 элемент, работающий на растяжение expanded metal просечно-вытяжной металлический лист 64 C. 3."[Г.И., Железнякова *Civil Engineering Часть 1*. 2017.]

16. "If one relies on in situ vestiges left by the Roman Ancients, scaffolding should be classified into two different basic types: scaffolds that left putlog holes in the wall, and those that were built without any contact with the wall. It is plausible that, normally, buildings without any putlog holes—depending, of course, on influencing factors such as the planned building height, wall thickness, ease of access to wall portions, etc."[Le Brun, Nicolas *Building knowledge, construction history. 2 vols. Proceedings of the 6th International Congress on Construction History (6ICCH 2018), July 9-13, 2018, Brussels, Belgium*. London: CRC Press (U.K.), 2018.]

17. "With the exception of the identifying bond, these appurtenances are ﬁve: the niche (kuwwa) [in the wall]; the door in [the wall]; the bearing of wooden beams; constructions on top of the wall; and the front (wajh) of the wall [ ."[O'Meara, Simon *Space and Muslim Urban Life: At the Limits of the Labyrinth of Fez (Culture and Civilization in the Middle East)*. 2007.]

18. "Qibla wall - the wall of a tomb or mosque that faces Mecca, in India invariably the western wall. Sarai - caravanserai, an inn. Scalloped arch - see cusped arch. Stucco - plaster coating often decorative; see also incised plaster. Takhti—literally’writing tablet’, a flat ornament on a gravestone denoting a female’s grave. Trabeate - in construction, covering space using vertical columns and horizontal beam."[Liddle, Swapna *Delhi 14: Historic walks*. Westland Publishing, 2012.]

19. "Key: (a) Line of outer wall face; (b) Line of inner wall face; (c) Residual bosses on face of blocks; (d) Tabulae for sighting lines of outer wall faces; (e) Tabulae for sighting lines of inner wall faces; (f) Draughts for angle torus; (g) Marginal draughts on face at rising joints; (h) Finely dressed upper bed joints; (j) Channel in upper bed joints for distributing lubricant mortar; (k) Cramp emplacements; (C) Plan of same passage of masonry in finished construction when final in situ dressing has been carried out subsequent to complete setting of wall blocks."[Wright, G.R.H. *Ancient Building Technology, Volume 3: Construction (2 vols.)*. Brill, 2009.]

20. "This occurs when a window opening creates a divide within the wall section, similar to a control joint in a floor slab. As the wall shrinks, the wall section on either side of the opening behaves as unit. As the wall sections attempt to pull away from the opening, stress builds up along the precast lintel that is bridging the two wall sections. This condition results in horizontal friction or shearing of the mortar between the wall and the precast lintel."[de Leon, Diaz, and Alicia E *Forensic Engineering 2015 : performance of the built environment : proceedings of the Seventh Congress on Forensic Engineering, November 15-18, 2015, Miami, Florida*. American Society of Civil Engineers, 2015.]

21. "The rain screen’s outer white, reflective blue, or translucent green. migrates to low concentration areas. If the skin is composed of horizontal aluminum- Opposite Top: Mississippi riverfront elevation Bottom: Southwest corner, River Drive and Harrison Street 36 AsBuilt / Details in Contemporary Architecture 38 AsBuilt / Details in Contemporary Architecture Opposite Left: Rainscreen wall section Top: Exterior view Bottom: Rainscreen wall cavity This page Top: Rainscreen curtain wall Bottom: Rainscreen wall cavity looking up (left), rainscreen and conventional walls WALL CAVITY WALL CAVITY veneer vapor barrier vapor barrier permeable membrane vapor permeable barrier membrane veneer permeable membrane veneer WALL CAVITY ROOM INTERIOR ROOM INTERIOR ROOM structural INTERIOR wall/ insulation structural wall/ insulation structural wall/ insulation window window window CONVENTIONAL WALL CONVENTIONAL WALL CONVENTIONAL WALL WALL CAVITY WALL CAVITY veneer veneer window WALL CAVITY insulationinsulation insulation veneer structural wall structural wall air barrier structural air wall barrier air barrier window window RAINSCREEN WALL RAINSCREEN WALL 39 Figge Museum of Art RAINSCREEN WALL ROOM INTERIOR ROOM INTERIOR ROOM INTERIOR Art Center College of Design, Pasadena, California Daly Genik Architects, Santa Monica, California As the first building of its new south campus distribute their weight evenly over the roof extension, the Art Center College of Design surface could weigh no more than the (ACCD) has taken over a large 100,000- removed concrete decking, minimizing any square-foot concrete structure in downtown additional load on the building’s structure."[Killory, Christine *Details in Contemporary Architecture*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2007.]

22. "Acoustical adsorption 13. Curtain wall 14."[Liu, Helen *Residential Skin & Details*. DesignMedia Publishing Limited, 2013.]

23. "XXXII, |i r- V. G . . i o , rr . r , 'I - tb Fig. 12. The plastered pier in Building B, with the remains of wall 420, the western wall of Building B, above it. In the foreground, digging has proceeded into Silo B. 1969, 4) THE BIBLICALARCHAEOLOGIST 97 cracks of the bedrock foundation of wall 420 (Fig 12). That wall 420 (above the pier in Fig. 12) is an exterior wall seemed clear from the higher bedrock exposed for another meter to the west."[Research, American Schools of Oriental The Biblical Archaeologist - Vol.32, N.4 (1969).]

24. "zaborola (zabrala) The projecting upper part of a wall covered with a roof and overhanging the lower part of the wall (like a hoarding). The term is sometimes considered to be a synonym of oblam, or even to denote a wall in general."[Nossov, Konstantin, and Peter Dennis *Medieval Russian Fortresses AD 862-1480*. Osprey Publishing, 2007.]

25. "[16, 17] This wall is the line of support where many of the transfer beams mentioned above terminate and ﬁnd bearing surface. The wall is approximately 7. 5 meters long. At the bottom portion of this wall is a bookcase, a low horizontal wood unit measuring approximately 1. 12 meters high by 5 meters in length, sheathed with sliding glass doors. [18] The bookcase is not on the wall, but recessed so that it consumes virtually the entire depth of the wall, the front face of the woodwork set perfectly ﬂush with the wall’s plaster ﬁnish."[Kleinman, Kent, and Leslie Van Duzer *Mies van der Rohe's Krefeld Villas*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2005.]