Created: 2025-12-12 20:26:37
Origin: searched
Selected: The space of memory, the space of stories, the space of writing, and the space of our everyday experience contain signifiers, which depend in their meaning not only on a specific referent, but also on their place among other elements. Space, as Kern points out for modernity, is no mere emptiness, but a 334 A. Niebisch product that conserves as a multi-dimensional matrix, knowledge, codes, and practices.[(auth.), Gary Backhaus, Gary Backhaus, and John Murungi (eds.) *Symbolic Landscapes*. Springer Netherlands, 2009.]

--- Context List ---
01. "The space of memory, the space of stories, the space of writing, and the space of our everyday experience contain signifiers, which depend in their meaning not only on a specific referent, but also on their place among other elements. Space, as Kern points out for modernity, is no mere emptiness, but a 334 A. Niebisch product that conserves as a multi-dimensional matrix, knowledge, codes, and practices."[(auth.), Gary Backhaus, Gary Backhaus, and John Murungi (eds.) *Symbolic Landscapes*. Springer Netherlands, 2009.]

02. "Srygley interprets the main street-like development as presenting an allegory that critiques both the suburban landscape that it extols and the urban landscape that it shuns. It presents this allegory through the architectural oxymoron of a private public space. Nevertheless, due to an urban, historical amnesia, whereby people no longer understand what quality urban space is about, this allegorical critique is not experienced, rather, the ersatz main street makes for a “successful” con. It is precisely the absence of a veritable embodied urban experience that allows for a cheap imitation “to work. ” In chapter eight, “Metaphor, Environmental Receptivity, and Architectural Design,” Brook Muller discusses the important role of metaphor in architectural design."[(auth.), Gary Backhaus, Gary Backhaus, and John Murungi (eds.) *Symbolic Landscapes*. Springer Netherlands, 2009.]

03. "Its scope is wide but precise. Without prejudging the results, or focusing on certain favorite themes, how does art convey a sense of space and place?Chapter 1 explores how ultimately, environmental art, whatever its thematic content, is hamstrung by certain formal properties of language. I consider the literary criticism of environmental literature itself to be an example of environmental art. Chapter 1 lays out a vocabulary for analyzing works in a variety of media. I have taught several classes on kinds of literature that talk about some idea of environment, in which these terms have proved invaluable."[Morton, Timothy *Ecology without Nature: Rethinking Environmental Aesthetics*. Harvard University Press, 2007.]

04. "This counterposition concerns the very substance of the architectural endeavor as what Loos calls a "thinking in space. "What are the specifics of this space?Is this making-space an endeavor that establishes places?And are these places a "collection'', a mutual belonging of things and dwelling?Or is this making-space an Ent-ortung, an annihiliation of the places, an arranging of the land as an empty and uniform space at the disposal of the new project?This radical choice remains unquestioned as long as one limits oneself to emphasizing the specifics of architecture as being thinking in space."[Cacciari, Massimo, Stephen Sartarelli (transl.), and Patrizia Lombardo (introduction) *Architecture and Nihilism: On the Philosophy of Modern Architecture*. Yale University Press, 1995.]

05. "Unlike fine art, interior design is an applied art which cannot ascribe to only aesthetic demands. Technique and experience are important factors in this field of art. ”32 Rather than steer our concerns about what is included and excluded from interior design pedagogy back to tired debates about the value and purpose of art and modern distinctions (primarily invoked by higher education) between art and design, instead, consider what van Schaik calls “the art of virtual space. ”33 Complicit with contemporary British social scientist and geographer Doreen Massey’s declaration of the primacy of space and its inclusiveness rather than opposition to time, and architectural theorist Adrian Forty’s outline of a twentieth-century paradigm shift from concerns of surface and tectonics to those of spatiality, Teymur locates a complex slipperiness that cultivates interior design’s emergence and its evasion of (regulatory) definition. 34 Whether one charts the interior via Jean Baudrillard’s System of Objects, interiority through Elizabeth Grosz’s feminist philosophy and Freud’s psychoanalytic theory, or interiors by way of Charlotte Perkins Gilman’s Yellow Wallpaper and Eileen Gray’s lacquered furniture, only a highly permeable membrane remains between interior and space."[Kleinman, Kent, Joanna Merwood-Salisbury, and Lois Weinthal *After Taste: Expanded Practice in Interior Design*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2011.]

06. "But they lack the spatial structure of displaced physical objects. The combination of an immersive digital space with the tangibility of real presence would provide an almost transcendence of the two aesthetic understandings. New practices in installation art are acting as a venue for reconnection with empirical space in the light of modern departure from physicality. The transition involving post-modernist ideals and digital art is changing 174 JAMES P. WERNER the notion of immersion from transportation to another place to the desire for transportation into another realm."[(editor), Anna-Teresa Tymieniecka *Human Creation Between Reality and Illusion (Analecta Husserliana)*. Softcover reprint of hardcover 1st ed. 2005. Springer, 2005.]

07. "This may seem trivial. In fact, this distinction will reveal that surface and volume are the basis for two very different conceptions of stereotypical space. Furthermore, these two epistemologies invite very different cultures of space. Both Laban and Schlemmer developed an understanding of movement space through an application of solid geometry to movement art research. By “solid,” I do not mean a material state, as opposed to a liquid or gas. Solids are three-dimensional geometric objects."[Sutil, Nicolás Salazar *Motion and Representation: The Language of Human Movement*. The MIT Press, 2015.]

08. "In a certain sense Bergson acknowledges the becoming one of the other, the relation of direct inversion between them, when he conceptualizes space as the contraction of time, and time as the expansion or dilation of space. Space is mired in misconceptions and assumptions, habits and unreﬂective gestures that convert and transform it. Architecture, the art or science of spatial manipulation, must be as implicated in this as any other discipline or practice. According to Bergson, a certain habit of thought inverts the relations between space and objects, space and extension, to make it seem as if space precedes objects, when in fact space itself is produced through matter, extension, and movement: Space in itself, space outside these ruses of the imagination, is not static, ﬁxed, inﬁnitely expandable, inﬁnitely divisible, concrete, extended, continuous, and homogenous, though perhaps we must think it in these terms in order to continue our everyday lives (and the architect is perhaps more invested in this understanding of space than anyone else)."[Grosz, Elizabeth *Architecture from the Outside: Essays on Virtual and Real Space (Writing Architecture)*. 2001.]

09. "Serra's works frequently mean to show how the scale, design, texture, colour or materiality of entities change the space around them. His pieces inside galleries (including the very large wall-bound drawings made with thick black paint-stick) sculpt the gallery's own inner space, with the result that we often get a strong sense of the anti-sinuosity of the interior spaces in our modern buildings. Slat goes much further, for it succeeds in creating impressively diverse interior spaces that blend, flex and turn chiasmically into each other."[(auth.), Samuel B. Mallin *Art Line Thought*. Springer Netherlands, 1996.]

10. "Hence: "Having thus distinguished two themes in Photography (for in general the photographs I liked were constructed in the manner of a classical sonata), I could occupy myself with one after the other"[ibid. , 27]. • • I was thinking of a second meaning of composition. In the ghostly opposition of two concepts, in the pair S/P, studium/punctum, the composition is also the music. One could open here a long chapter on Barthes as musician. In a note, one would begin by locating a certain analogy between the two heterogeneous elements S and P. Since this relation is no longer one of simple exclusion, since the punctual supplement parasites the haunted space of the studium, one would discreetly suggest, parenthetically, that the punctum gives rhythm to the studium, that it "scans" it."[Derrida, Jacques *Psyche: Inventions of the Other, Volume I (Meridian: Crossing Aesthetics)*. Stanford University Press, 2007.]

11. "The metaphor of light as knowledge originates in embodied experience: light is the condition for seeing. Kahn respatializes back into the lifeworld this spatialization metaphor through patterns of spatio-luminous organization “embodied” in the Library’s space: one literally takes a book from a low-ceilinged and relatively dark “stack space” and brings it to a generously day-lit study carrel at the building’s periphery."[(auth.), Gary Backhaus, Gary Backhaus, and John Murungi (eds.) *Symbolic Landscapes*. Springer Netherlands, 2009.]

12. "That is to say, the saturation, thickness, turn, twist, flow, rhythm and interrelationship (and colour) of its lines is enough to orient the space of the paper or canvas to present all the phenomena that can be made available in visual art. However, it may be clear to us now that the space that is thereby modulated in traditional art is an artificial and fictional one. It is that thin pure space that sits a little behind the canvas and into the wall on which it must hang."[(auth.), Samuel B. Mallin *Art Line Thought*. Springer Netherlands, 1996.]

13. "So far, this entire system rests on a three-step process toward abstraction: from lived-in space, to a diagrammatic description of geometric space, to a respacing of symbols within the domain of script (stave notation). This three-step process guarantees the transcription of the symbol from a 3D diagram to a 2D script in such a way that the symbol does not lose its association with an original lived-in movement and a stereotypical movement space. However, when we read these symbols on a stave, rather than as units within a diagram, or indeed rather than kinesymbols obtained directly from physical life, they lose their concrete existence within movement space and become arbitrary symbols."[Sutil, Nicolás Salazar *Motion and Representation: The Language of Human Movement*. The MIT Press, 2015.]

14. "By staging counter-occupations the character of public space is questioned. How and for whom are these sites animated?How is social meaning enacted or inscribed there?For Wodiczko, this is what makes his public, interventionist art into a political situation, a constructed situation in the sense discussed throughout this book, since it demands that public space and access to fearless speech be constantly renegotiated, by critically un-building and reconstructing architectural symbols to expose their lack of innocence. 35 In contrast to Wodiczko, the Surveillance Camera Players (hereafter SCP), founded by Bill Brown in November 1996, in New York, aim to question the loss of our rights to privacy, to invisibility, in our age of technological surveillance."[Stracey, Frances *Constructed situations : a new history of the situationist international*. Pluto Press, 2014.]

15. "But Wilson immerses one into the object and substance. The space becomes another place in its own, separate from the gallery. In this way it is almost a transcendence of virtualization. How better to project the concept of immersion than to literally immerse the audience in its physical realization and then make them believe, even for a second, that it’s not really there?Another example is the work of Olafur Eliasson. One of his pieces at the 2003 Venice Biennale consisted of an empty space lit with a low glaring yellow hue that filled the room, allowing only the projection of a black and white color spectrum to exist in the space."[(editor), Anna-Teresa Tymieniecka *Human Creation Between Reality and Illusion (Analecta Husserliana)*. Softcover reprint of hardcover 1st ed. 2005. Springer, 2005.]