Created: 2025-12-12 20:17:41
Origin: searched
Selected: This counterposition concerns the very substance of the architectural endeavor as what Loos calls a "thinking in space. "What are the specifics of this space?Is this making-space an endeavor that establishes places?And are these places a "collection'', a mutual belonging of things and dwelling?Or is this making-space an Ent-ortung, an annihiliation of the places, an arranging of the land as an empty and uniform space at the disposal of the new project?This radical choice remains unquestioned as long as one limits oneself to emphasizing the specifics of architecture as being thinking in space.[Cacciari, Massimo, Stephen Sartarelli (transl.), and Patrizia Lombardo (introduction) *Architecture and Nihilism: On the Philosophy of Modern Architecture*. Yale University Press, 1995.]

--- Context List ---
01. "It requires perception } of thermal and luminous phenomenon that are not visible in the same sense as architectural space. Boundaries in the thermal or luminous environment are subtle and not sharply defined. 33 Whereas architecture as building emphasizes an iconic image—singularity and static fixity, the metaphors of architecture as organism and architecture as furnishing a larger room suggest a dynamic, open, less formal and more fluid style. By demanding recognition of something beyond the work itself these metaphors critically promote the architectural function as the intertwining of making and world producing the spatial potentiality for the intertwining of (human) organisms and environment."[(auth.), Gary Backhaus, Gary Backhaus, and John Murungi (eds.) *Symbolic Landscapes*. Springer Netherlands, 2009.]

02. "It is here that it is instructive to position the engagement and use of new digital media within architecture as part of these larger cultural transformations; for there is a parallel rise between the use of digital technology within architecture and popular entertainment. During the period that architecture slowly moved to adopt digital means of drawing and modelling these systems were producing ever more ‘realistic’ representations of architectural space within popular game environments."[Arya, Rina *Francis Bacon: Critical and Theoretical Perspectives*. Peter Lang International Academic Publishers, 2012.]

03. "The virtual spaces of computer programming are not spaces of the virtual, in Deleuze’s sense, but the phantasmatic projections of real space. “In Between: The Natural in Architecture and Culture,” chapter 6, is an attempt to reformulate and dynamize the conception of nature that has remained elided or has been considered as mere resource in architectural discourse and practice."[Grosz, Elizabeth *Architecture from the Outside: Essays on Virtual and Real Space (Writing Architecture)*. 2001.]

04. "Hildebrandt goes further to highlight a profound conceptually based rift between interior design and interior architecture: [I]nterior design is grounded in the condition of additive assemblies and separate contracted services. While the design processes of architecture and interior design share the same procedural sequence and a core discipline vocabulary, interior design, both as a discipline and in its product, is (or can be) free of the weight of the architecture. Additive assemblies within the “interior” may establish an independent language. . . intentionally, conceptually, and contractually removed from the building shell. 26 Whether in an educational or professional context, interior design’s association with architecture necessitates an imperative for students and practitioners to become familiar with a wide scope of building technologies, including materials and systems, structures, physics, health and safety issues, mathematics, and sustainable practices."[Kleinman, Kent, Joanna Merwood-Salisbury, and Lois Weinthal *After Taste: Expanded Practice in Interior Design*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2011.]

05. "This counterposition concerns the very substance of the architectural endeavor as what Loos calls a "thinking in space. "What are the specifics of this space?Is this making-space an endeavor that establishes places?And are these places a "collection'', a mutual belonging of things and dwelling?Or is this making-space an Ent-ortung, an annihiliation of the places, an arranging of the land as an empty and uniform space at the disposal of the new project?This radical choice remains unquestioned as long as one limits oneself to emphasizing the specifics of architecture as being thinking in space."[Cacciari, Massimo, Stephen Sartarelli (transl.), and Patrizia Lombardo (introduction) *Architecture and Nihilism: On the Philosophy of Modern Architecture*. Yale University Press, 1995.]

06. "p. cm. — (Writing architecture) Includes bibliographical references and index. ISBN 0-262-57149-8 (pbk. : alk. paper) 1. Architecture—Philosophy. 2. Space (Architecture)—Philosophy. I. Title. II. Series. NA2500 . G76 2001 720´. 1—dc21 2001018300 Acknowledgments vii Foreword by Peter Eisenman xi Introduction xv Part One Embodied Spaces one Embodying Space: An Interview two Lived Spatiality (The Spaces of Corporeal Desire) 31 Futures, Cities, Architecture 49 four Architecture from the Outside 57 ﬁve Cyberspace, Virtuality, and the Real: Some three 3 Part Two Transitional Spaces Architectural Reflections six 75 In-Between: The Natural in Architecture and Culture 91 Part Three Future Spaces seven The Future of Space: Toward an Architecture of Invention 109 eight Embodied Utopias: The Time of Architecture 131 nine Architectures of Excess 151 The Thing 167 ten Notes 185 Bibliography 207 Index 215 I am an outsider to the ﬁeld of architecture."[Grosz, Elizabeth *Architecture from the Outside: Essays on Virtual and Real Space (Writing Architecture)*. 2001.]

07. "In other words, one can create a digital object either by surface representation or by representing the interior volume of the object. Because the surface of a digitally generated skin already PART I: M O V E M E N T S PAC E implies a sense of volume, polygon mesh generation is the preferred option across a number of systems used in computer-aided design (CAD). But how can we represent movement within this stereotypical space?And how can movement and space become coextensive?Or as Laban puts it, how can “space [be] … a hidden feature of movement and movement … a visible aspect of space” (1966, 4)?"[Sutil, Nicolás Salazar *Motion and Representation: The Language of Human Movement*. The MIT Press, 2015.]

08. "We term this totality abstract topological space. And further: The isolation of these qualities in their pure form leads us to the idea of an abstract space that corresponds to them. '25 If by isolating a certain quality a set of continuously contiguous elements is formed, then we can speak of an abstract space of that quality. In this way we can talk of the space of ethics, of colour, of myth. In this sense spatial modelling becomes a language in which non-spatial ideas can be expressed."[Lotman, Yuri M. *Universe of the mind: a semiotic theory of culture*. London: Tauris, 1990.]

09. "Perhaps the most striking transformation effected by these technologies is the change in our perceptions of materiality, space, and information, which is bound directly or indirectly to affect how we understand architecture, habitation, and the built environment. These changes are most apparent in the development of complex systems of simulation, storage, and circulation of information and representation now labeled cyberspace and virtual reality. Cyberspace has been considered a “parallel” universe to our own, generated and sustained by global communications networks and computers linking disparate physical spaces and individuals through a shared virtual space, the space of linked, networked computers and their users. 1 The contours of this virtual space and its various contents can be generated, manipulated, and to some extent controlled in ways unheard of in the space(s) that we normally take for granted, which I will describe as lived, everyday space."[Grosz, Elizabeth *Architecture from the Outside: Essays on Virtual and Real Space (Writing Architecture)*. 2001.]

10. "As promised, here is the fuller context from Of Grammatology’s final chapter: If one thinks, finally, that the scriptural space is linked, as Rousseau intuited, to the nature of social space, to the perceptive and dynamic organization of technical, religious, economic space and so forth, one has an idea of the difficulty of a transcendental question about space. A new transcendental aesthetic should let itself be guided [. . . ]by the possibility of inscription in general, which does not befall like some contingent accident an already constituted space, but produces the spatiality of space."[Gaston, Sean, and Ian MacLachlan (editors) *Reading Derrida's Of Grammatology*. Continuum, 2011.]

11. "Factors that help to induce a sense of ‘place’, therefore, are given particular consideration. One of the most effective of these factors is light, to the extent that light and space are inseparable and that when light is eliminated from a space the emotional content of space disappears. The essence of architectural space lies in the interaction of the elements that define it. We can observe the relevance of the indivisible interplay of space and light in the case of the courtyard house."[Edwards, Brian *Courtyard Housing*. Taylor & Francis Group, 2006.]

12. "So far, this entire system rests on a three-step process toward abstraction: from lived-in space, to a diagrammatic description of geometric space, to a respacing of symbols within the domain of script (stave notation). This three-step process guarantees the transcription of the symbol from a 3D diagram to a 2D script in such a way that the symbol does not lose its association with an original lived-in movement and a stereotypical movement space. However, when we read these symbols on a stave, rather than as units within a diagram, or indeed rather than kinesymbols obtained directly from physical life, they lose their concrete existence within movement space and become arbitrary symbols."[Sutil, Nicolás Salazar *Motion and Representation: The Language of Human Movement*. The MIT Press, 2015.]

13. "This attitude is motivated both by the need to provide as detailed an account as possible of time in the allocated textual space, and by the various dissimilarities between space and time. While space and time can be fruitfully compared and contrasted, the use of metaphors taken from one domain to clarify features belonging to the other domain has the real potential of leading us astray by unconsciously and seamlessly taking metaphorical language in a literal sense. In the ﬁrst part of this essay, I will discuss the famous debate between Newton, Leibniz, and Clarke on the nature of space and time."[Garrett, Aaron *The Routledge Companion to Eighteenth Century Philosophy*. Routledge, 2014.]

14. "The primary intent of this book is to provide a written foundation for the space planning process. Although a planning methodology is described and recommended here, it is dealt with in a concise manner so as to give full attention to the more elusive planning and design-related parts of the process. This should not be construed as minimizing the value of the pre-design process; to the contrary, good space planning cannot be accomplished without the professionally thorough pre- design analysis generally defined here."[Karlen, Mark, and Rob Fleming *Space Planning Basics, 4th Edition*. 4th ed. Wiley, 2016.]

15. "Indeed, Gothic space differs from ancient Greek space, again according to Worringer, on the basis of the former’s wresting from space “a vitality of expression” (158) that facilitates the coming to life of the sensuous pathos of Gothic that is to be desired in the first place. As Worringer describes it, Gothic architectural space relies on a visual spectacle and embodied impact that force us to reconsider the legacy of Gothic through the ages in order to investigate the transformations it has incurred in other artistic phenomena and media environments."[Blanco, Maria del Pilar, and Esther Peeren *Popular Ghosts: The Haunted Spaces of Everyday Culture*. Bloomsbury Academic, 2010.]