Created: 2025-12-19 15:04:33
Origin: searched
Selected: Information is thus halfway between pure chance and absolute regularity. O n e can say that form, conceived as absolute spatial as well as temporal regularity, is not information but a condition o f information; it is what receives inform ation, the 190 a priori that receives information. Form has a function of selectivity. But inform ation is not form, nor is it a collection [ensemble) of forms; it is the variability o f forms, the influx of variation with respect to a form. It is the unpredictability o f a variation of form, not pure unpredictability of all variation.[Simondon, Gilbert, and Cecile Malaspina *On the Mode of Existence of Technical Objects*. Paperback. Univocal Publishing, 2017.]

--- Context List ---
01. "The architectural metaphor only speaks through its apparent shape, form, volume, space, material, etc. that the concepts which underlie each are known to the user as they would to a painting, poem, or concerto. [17] Furthermore as observation, analysis and use fill in the gaps users’ inference the locations of concealed rooms, passages and supports, the users infer from a typology of the type a warehouse of expectations and similes to this metaphor from others."[Fez-Barringten, Barie, and Edward Hart *Architecture: The Making of Metaphors*. Cambridge Scholars Publishing, 2012.]

02. "This may be both the author’s strategy to get all his/her article read, and the author’s intention to facilitate his/her readers’ comprehension. Whatever the reason, model and target words generally tend to co-exist in the same (micro-)context. Examples (54)–(58) have illustrated (with various distances) this co-existence between model and analogical formation. Similarly, examples (59)‒(61) show anaphoric targets, with models which immediately precede them: (59) Mods, Hippies, Yuppies, Sloanes, Dinkies, Lombards, New Men, Soft Lads, New Laddettes, Generation X-ers, Generation Y-ers, Wide-boys, Young Fogeys, New Agers, Permakids ĳ the list of the labels we hang on ourselves grows almost daily."[Mattiello, Elisa *Analogy in Word-formation : A Study of English Neologisms and Occasionalisms.*. Berlin/Boston, GERMANY: De Gruyter Mouton, 2017.]

03. "In the case of a patchwork, though, we have the stitching together of striated f'abrics into a smooth space. Thus, the striations become local rather than global. THE MUSIL~L MODEL This model is dosely connected with the discussion of music in "Of the Refrain," which we explored above. What Deleuze and Guattari make explicit here is the connection between music and the two kinds of space. Here they rely on the work of Pierre Boulez and identify smooth space with rhythm and striated space with harrnony and melody."[Adkins, Brent *Deleuze and Guattari’s A Thousand Plateaus: A Critical Introduction and Guide*. Edinburgh University Press, 2015.]

04. "3 See: http://www. lom-fr. fr/. 58 Audiovisual Archives The simplest models, which are closest to the standard forms of description/ indexation, are those which only have sequences for referential analysis and/or analysis of the space-time context. Other forms, however, possess a very elaborate structure, exploiting to the full the richness of the semiotic approach to the analysis of audiovisual corpora. Thus, we can see that the canonic structure in Figure 4. 2 remains crucial for the definition of a model of description and for its development in the guise of an interactive working form."[Stockinger(auth.), Peter *Audiovisual Archives*. Wiley-ISTE, 2012.]

05. "This study was complicated by the inclusion of graspable versus non-graspable objects, which may constrain the results. van Elk’s interpretation acknowledged the role of physical affordances but also suggested there were clear cultural influences on experiences of peripersonal versus extrapersonal space. Related to this conclusion, given differences in conceptions about self as more independent versus interdependent in North Americans versus East Asians, respectively (Kitayama and Park 2010), and differences in perception itself between more foreground-focused Europeans and North Americans versus more background aware East Asians (Nisbett and Miyamoto 2005), one could think that there may be differences in the experience of peri- and extrapersonal space as well. Soliman and Situating Interaction in Peripersonal and Extrapersonal Space: Empirical… 73 Glenberg (Soliman and Glenberg 2014; Soliman et al. 2013) show a difference in spatial judgment related to just such cultural differences."[Hünefeldt, Thomas, and Annika Schlitte *Situatedness and Place: Multidisciplinary Perspectives on the Spatio-temporal Contingency of Human Life*. Springer International Publishing, 2018.]

06. "Deleuze and Guattari's experiment in A Thousand Plateaus is to write the rhizome, to create sornething new. This requires a new model, not a model that might be opposed to the arborescent 1110del as a superior type of the same thing, but a model that "operates as an immanent process that overturns the model and oudines a rnap, even if it constitutes its own hierarchies, even if it gives rise to a despotic channel" (TP 20). Creating the new is risky. It requires eschewing the safety of rnodels sanctified by centuries of thought, and there are no guarantees how the new creation will turn out."[Adkins, Brent *Deleuze and Guattari’s A Thousand Plateaus: A Critical Introduction and Guide*. Edinburgh University Press, 2015.]

07. "From that point of view, virtual places cause backlashes into tangible reality by occupying corporeal places for their upkeep. We even may conjecture that virtual places are quantitatively limited on principle by availability of space and resources in our lifeworld. This conjunction arises from the nature of information, which can be traced back into ancient Greece, especially the concept of matter and form. In this sense, information can be described as a bringing of form into matter (in-formatio), which binds the term to both of them (cf."[Hünefeldt, Thomas, and Annika Schlitte *Situatedness and Place: Multidisciplinary Perspectives on the Spatio-temporal Contingency of Human Life*. Springer International Publishing, 2018.]

08. "It is inherent that the metaphor makes the strange familiar. Because [26] radically new knowledge results from a change in modes of representation of knowledge, whereas a comparative metaphor occurs within the existing representations which serve to render the comparison sensible. The comparative level of metaphor might allow for extensions of already existing knowledge, but would not provide a new form of understanding. Comparative metaphors may be conducive to more than one commonplace and suggesting that referents may be replaced to achieve the same commonplace."[Fez-Barringten, Barie, and Edward Hart *Architecture: The Making of Metaphors*. Cambridge Scholars Publishing, 2012.]

09. "Alongside this form of location, there exists (of course) a very diverse range of other forms of location which rely on social space. It is the specificity of the corpus of analysis and the universe of discourse* which decides the possibility of explicitizing a particular form of locating a knowledge object. Let us simply note in passing that a form of location is always equipped with a double specification: 1. a thematic specification: this specifies the type of social space required in order to locate a knowledge object – the space of daily life, the space organizing the world of work, etc."[Stockinger(auth.), Peter *Audiovisual Archives*. Wiley-ISTE, 2012.]

10. "This is not to suggest any equality between the texts but rather that when the verbal and visual texts are juxtaposed, once the individual texts become a text (an intertwining of signifiers), its reading becomes a singular event. This suggests that a new cognitive process is at work. While the search for a logical line of correspondence between the visual and the verbal may not reveal moments of succession or interrelation, I would suggest that Painted Stories and Novel Spaces 225 one cannot fully understand Calvino's renowned creative metamorphoses without coming to terms with the implications of his eventual turn to paintings for inspiration."[Ricci, Franco *Painting with Words, Writing with Pictures: Word and Image in the Work of Italo Calvino*. University of Toronto Press, 2001.]

11. "Similarly, the analyst may opt to use the aforementioned form to define just a cultural construct (on the American continent) without relation to a particular civilization. For instance, he may use the form to describe an audiovisual text which 80 Audiovisual Archives thematizes technical culture in a certain era in this-or-that region of the American continent. This ambiguity is common to the functional architecture underlying the form shown in Figure 5. 6 and that underlying the form shown in Figure 3. 2."[Stockinger(auth.), Peter *Audiovisual Archives*. Wiley-ISTE, 2012.]

12. "Yet poetry is not expected to be the only preferential context for analogical creation. This chapter offers an overview of the complex architecture of analogy in the synchronic formation of new English words. The model proposed distinguishes pure surface analogies (Motsch 1981; cf."[Mattiello, Elisa *Analogy in Word-formation : A Study of English Neologisms and Occasionalisms.*. Berlin/Boston, GERMANY: De Gruyter Mouton, 2017.]

13. "Information is thus halfway between pure chance and absolute regularity. O n e can say that form, conceived as absolute spatial as well as temporal regularity, is not information but a condition o f information; it is what receives inform ation, the 190 a priori that receives information. Form has a function of selectivity. But inform ation is not form, nor is it a collection [ensemble) of forms; it is the variability o f forms, the influx of variation with respect to a form. It is the unpredictability o f a variation of form, not pure unpredictability of all variation."[Simondon, Gilbert, and Cecile Malaspina *On the Mode of Existence of Technical Objects*. Paperback. Univocal Publishing, 2017.]

14. "In Cognitive Development and the Acquisition of Language, edited by Timothy Moore, New York: Academic Press, 111-144, 1973. Rosch, Eleanor and Carolyn Mervis. “Family Resemblances: Studies in the Integral Structure of Categories”. In Cognitive Psychology 7; 573605, 1975. Rusinek, Angelina. “Clothes And People Go Together: A Historical Inquiry Into Crossing The Boundaries Between Conceptual Categories”. In Studia Anglica Resoviensia 5. Rzeszów: Wydawnictwo Uniwersytetu Rzeszowskiego, 2008a."[Żyśko, Konrad *A Cognitive Linguistics Account of Wordplay*. Cambridge Scholars Publishing, 2017.]

15. "330 G. Del Negro Conclusions A transitional/translational space may be viewed as an aesthetic space, in which to engage with objects that are actual and intellectual, inner and outer, animate and inanimate, cultural and natural, conscious and unconscious. This playfulness cannot be idealized, but it can, and sometimes needs to, be destructive (Green 2005). Ambiguities are necessary, indeed, for playing to take place. When everything is clear and defined, there is no need, or desire, to play. I have illustrated how reflexivity and novel thinking may be triggered in research with education professionals, by translating personal experience into different aesthetic transpositions, from drawing to storytelling."[Campbell, Madeleine, and Ricarda Vidal *Translating across Sensory and Linguistic Borders: Intersemiotic Journeys between Media*. Springer International Publishing,Palgrave Macmillan, 2019.]