Created: 2025-12-26 22:49:10
Origin: searched
Selected: FLOOR PAGE 29 2012 Wall-through-wall carpet: in an effort to break the monotony of ubiquitous wall-to-wall carpet, Dutch firm Carpets  for Buildings lays the floor plan (In a computer) over a massive gradated pattern, with carpet then printed and laid as  glimpses of this Invisible, larger whole. bearing The sensual floor - always touching or communicating with the body - participates in the body's  bearing and movement.[INPUT: floor.pdf]

--- Context List ---
01. "The walls are a large “plane. ” The sofa is a large “plane. ” The floor coverings and floor are large planes. My apartment might be a fun example to analyze . . . Our dining room and living room have zany painted floors—a deep beigey color coupled with a crisp white to make a wild, but not too wild, checkerboard floor. The walls pull from the white in the floor—a quiet “plane” in contrast with the “pop” of the painted floors."[Salway, Christina, and Monica Pedersen *Home improvement projects for the busy & broke: how to get your $h!t together and live like an adult*. Skyhorse Publishing, 2016.]

02. "That said, it should be remembered that arbitrarily eliminating as many interior walls as possible will not necessarily result in a better space. While floor area and elbow room are inevitably gained, wall space is lost. This may affect the possibilities for furniture placement and storage options. Open-concept layouts are great so long as they truly correspond with the necessities at hand."[Shafer, Jay *The Small House Book*. Tumbleweed Tiny House, 2009.]

03. "The table and charts are usually computed by the zonal cavity method. In this method, a room is divided into three horizontal zones, called floor, ceiling and room cavities. 454 Building Engineering and Systems Design The effective reflectance of each cavity is then detennined from the reflectances of the floor and ceiling and from a factor called cavity ratio."[Merritt, Frederick S., and James Ambrose (auth.) *Building Engineering and Systems Design*. Springer US, 1989.]

04. "Hence, 585 the smaller the area for vertical circulation, the more usable floor area for a given perimeter, or the smaller the perimeter for a required usable floor area. Often, if more usable area can be obtained for each floor, the lower are the number of stories required for the building. Because of the lower height of the building, there will be savings in costs of interior and exterior walls, piping, wiring, stairs and elevat0fs."[Merritt, Frederick S., and James Ambrose (auth.) *Building Engineering and Systems Design*. Springer US, 1989.]

05. "Three-Dimensional Reality This text has focused and will continue to focus on the development of floor plan solutions. Do good floor plans always make for well-designed interiors?Obviously not. Yet planners often have a strong inclination to get so involved in the space planning process and its two-dimensional, jigsaw-puzzle-like qualities that the resulting three-dimensional qualities of the space become an afterthought."[Karlen, Mark, and Rob Fleming *Space Planning Basics*. 4th ed. Wiley, 2016.]

06. "FLOOR PAGE 29 2012 Wall-through-wall carpet: in an effort to break the monotony of ubiquitous wall-to-wall carpet, Dutch firm Carpets  for Buildings lays the floor plan (In a computer) over a massive gradated pattern, with carpet then printed and laid as  glimpses of this Invisible, larger whole. bearing The sensual floor - always touching or communicating with the body - participates in the body's  bearing and movement."[INPUT: floor.pdf]

07. "For example, a marble runner within a wooden floor could form a ‘pathway’ through a hall and into a living space, perhaps continuing to the fireplace or window; or in a kitchen, dark wood set into a poured-resin floor could be echoed by a worktop or cabinets of the same wood. One of the joys of introducing contrasting runners is that it allows you to use luxury materials that in large quantities would blow the budget."[Hoppen, Kelly *House of Hoppen: A Retrospective*. Jacqui Small, 2016.]

08. "The primary concern of this text is space planning, not design presentation. Despite this, the language of space planning is the floor plan, and its graphic qualities cannot be entirely ignored. One of the premises of the planning methodology presented here is that the transition from the rough floor plan to the preliminary or presentation floor plan is part of the planning process, not just a graphic refinement."[Karlen, Mark, and Rob Fleming *Space Planning Basics*. 4th ed. Wiley, 2016.]

09. "FLOOR Infinitely harmless, the floor Is  obliged to offer Its occupants  stability -  yet receives from  Its users systematic harshness,  If not abuse, in return. k e lle r e a s t e r lin g FLOOR PAGE 1 floor . . . once a surface for symbolic expression -  defining the way  spaces are used, implying the 'rules of the game' -  floors in  the 20th century tended towards a purely Cartesian surface. . .  rational, undecorated, unloved, perfectly flat, ideally soundless-  simultaneous with our neglect of programmatic, symbolic,  and haptic potential, floor space became the dominant economic  measure of architectural space: real estate adopted a fetish  of the m2, masking the reality of the three-dimensional volume,  and the floor itself is typically a thick slab, sometimes a 'false  floor' containing mysteries similar to those of the ceiling. . ."[INPUT: floor.pdf]

10. "Another example of concealed storage is the grooved timber, lit up to highlight their contours and the bust by Ralph Brown. Assessing a space and planning the layout is something that has always come naturally to me because I find it very easy to visualize a room in three dimensions – a cuboid made up of six vertical and horizontal planes: four walls, a ceiling and a floor."[Hoppen, Kelly *House of Hoppen: A Retrospective*. Jacqui Small, 2016.]

11. "Outside becomes in, inside becomes out. Lighting armatures and lighting levels were very important because of the function of the space, and soft lighting combines with natural materials to create a warm, welcoming feel. 在室内的表面设计中，马赛克、天然石材、木材、玻璃和镜 子等材料相互作用，打造出了一曲和谐的乐章。设计师精心 挑选了一些图案、海报和标语贴在墙面上，为空间增添了浪 漫的感觉。 2 1. Wood floor in cutting area creates a relaxing atmosphere 2."[Chang, Catherine *Beauty Salons*. Liaoning Science & Technology Publishing House, Profession Design Press, 2011.]

12. "The random of the facets is a sharp contrast with the environment, it reminds of the freedom of nature, while large wood walls structure the space into a spatial composition the reveals unexpected views and perspective as you walk through. The space seems to be created with three basic elements: water (glass), stone (concrete floor) and wood (walls)."[Chang, Catherine *Beauty Salons*. Liaoning Science & Technology Publishing House, Profession Design Press, 2011.]

13. "For examples, a single space could be bedroom, study room and parlour at the same time. The charm of the "mix and match" of functions lies in the relaxing atmosphere created in such a multi-functional space. Meanwhile, to some extent, such an unconventional space layout would likely free us from certain constraints. The space with a European style shown above is mainly used as a study room."[Du (Editor), Darren *New Art Deco Style*. Design Media Publishing Ltd, 2011.]

14. "(See page 140 in the appendix for a foundation plan. )Floor plans. You must have a plan for each floor that shows outside dimensions plus locations of windows and doors, plumbing fixtures, and large appliances. You may add the electrical drawings as well. These drawings show the locations of receptacles and switches."[Heldmann, Carl *Be Your Own House Contractor: Save 25% without Lifting a Hammer*. 5th. Storey Publishing, LLC, 2006.]

15. "“Thinking about how you move in and through a space is the key. ” Reorienting a layout can deliver great gains,suchascreatingadualuseforasingle room or maximising storage, says Sydney interior designer Natasha Levak. “With a clever floor plan, you can ensure no space is wasted and the general feeling of the interior becomes not only practical but aesthetically pleasing. ” Levak recently remodelled an Art Deco apartment in Sydney’s east."[*Australian House & Garden* 2017.]

16. "(Don't forget to consider the wall space separating each room. )Jot down its measurement. Continue this procedure until the last room adjacent to the length of the wall in question is measured. Repeat this procedure to obtain the width of each room. Based on these measurements, you now can draw a simple to-scale floor plan. We suggest using a pencil as you might have to make changes."[Moran, Elizabeth, Master Joseph Yu, and Val Biktashev *The Complete Idiot's Guide to Feng Shui, Third Edition*. 3rd ed. New York: ALPHA, 2005.]

17. "Economy in space often prompts designers to explore the stacking of stairs so that a single shaft accommodates two flights one above the other. Typical applications are twin escape stairs or else the interlocking of dog-leg stairs in maisonette plans. Stairs constructed within solid shafts need more space at landings if furniture has to be manoeuvred through the space, a point that is critical in 'scissors'-type plans employed for maisonette construction."[Blanc, Alan *Internal Components*. Routledge, 1994.]

18. "In practice, ground-floor joists are often half the depth of those used in upper floors where, of course, such intermediate support is not possible. The plan (previous page) shows the ground-floor layout of a typical late-Victorian terraced house. The joists run from side to side (front to back is another option) and are supported on sleeper walls. The joists in the front room, therefore, are supported by the party walls, the sleeper wall and the internal loadbearing wall."[MBEng, Duncan Marshall BSc MCIOB, and Derek Worthing BSc Mphil MRICS *The Construction of Houses, Fourth Edition*. 4th ed. Estates Gazette Ltd, 2006.]

19. "The flats have upper floors formed in pre-cast concrete. A concrete floor (and its floor finish) provides better fire protection and sound insulation than the timber floor shown above. When the planks have been laid they are grouted to fill any holes or gaps. A 75mm screed forms the base for the resilient chipboard/foam finishing layer. Because the concrete floor and applied screed will contain construction moisture they are separated from the floor decking by a polythene vapour control layer."[MBEng, Duncan Marshall BSc MCIOB, and Derek Worthing BSc Mphil MRICS *The Construction of Houses, Fourth Edition*. 4th ed. Estates Gazette Ltd, 2006.]

20. "en OQ ::s ~ o 14 Component design Controlling dimension B C A - . S'" ;§"" Zone t:; . Q ~ ~ § '"§ u~ N Figure 1. 4 Floor to ceiling heights. (a) Table 1. 3(a) Modular sizes for horizontal co-ordinating dimensions of spaces (Source: BS 6750 : 1986 Table 2) Dimension/space Range of space (mm) Multiples of size Zones for columns and loadbearing walls Centres of columns and wall zones Spaces between column and wall zones Openings in walls (e. g."[Blanc, Alan *Internal Components*. Routledge, 1994.]

21. "Do you divide each floor separately?"[Moran, Elizabeth, Master Joseph Yu, and Val Biktashev *The Complete Idiot's Guide to Feng Shui, Third Edition*. 3rd ed. New York: ALPHA, 2005.]

22. "Then, there’s a simple neutral sisal rug on the floor, which adds texture, ties into the color of the beige floor squares, and adds a little calm to the room. Sofa: quiet. Also beigey. Pillows: mixture of quiet and “wow,” drawing from the other patterns, colors, and materials in the room to inform a balance of “wow” on an otherwise neutral piece. This might sound a little milquetoast at first glance, but then POP!"[Salway, Christina, and Monica Pedersen *Home improvement projects for the busy & broke: how to get your $h!t together and live like an adult*. Skyhorse Publishing, 2016.]

23. "5. 4) built in China for different kinds of ritual purposes. 82 The first type has the interior divided by the pillars across both width and depth to form an inner space enclosed by aisles on its four sides; in comparison, the second type, with a square floor plan, is divided into inner and outer spaces."[Lin, Wei-Cheng *Building a Sacred Mountain: The Buddhist Architecture of China’s Mount Wutai*. University of Washington Press, 2014.]

24. "At the waiting area, the wood floor pattern breaks the normal long-running board pattern with cross-stitched short boards slowing the visitor down. In the lounge area a brick floor with a simple running bond pattern define the informal dining area. At the kitchen visitors walk on an antiqued hexagonal brick floor. Even in the bathrooms, a carefully considered large stone floor pattern support a larger series of discrete experiences that work overall to quietly engage the visitor into quiet contemplation."[Du (Editor), Darren *New Art Deco Style*. Design Media Publishing Ltd, 2011.]

25. "5). The building has a usable floor area (measured to the inside of the walls) of roughly 84. 5 m2 (910 ft2) and an interior volume of approximately 217 m3 (7,660 ft3). The above-grade wall assemblies are a hybrid construction of Compressed Earth Blocks (CEBs) and straw-bales. Heating was provided during the study period by radiant floor heating (ground floor only)."[Ciancio, Daniela, and Christopher Beckett *Rammed Earth Construction: Cutting-Edge Research on Traditional and Modern Rammed Earth*. CRC Press, 2015.]