Created: 2025-12-27 17:25:49
Origin: searched
Selected: This is particularly evident from the balcony, where the open window allows an unexpected view of the landscape from a vantage point within it. In all of this the window serves as the prop for discovering new and unexpected relationships between the inside and outside. This window, like any other, relies on mechanisms of operation, instruments of opening and closure.[Leatherbarrow, David, and Mohsen Mostafavi *Surface Architecture*. 2002.]

--- Context List ---
01. "This is particularly evident from the balcony, where the open window allows an unexpected view of the landscape from a vantage point within it. In all of this the window serves as the prop for discovering new and unexpected relationships between the inside and outside. This window, like any other, relies on mechanisms of operation, instruments of opening and closure."[Leatherbarrow, David, and Mohsen Mostafavi *Surface Architecture*. 2002.]

02. "In these buildings the window performs a function in excess of pictorial visuality. While both window types still prioritize seeing from inside to outside, these examples 56 c h a p t e r 3 3. 9 Gerrit Rietveld, Schroeder house, Utrecht, 1924. window/wall 57 delay the immediate appearance of the “natural” landscape, which was at the heart of the puriﬁed and “hygienic” terrains of Le Corbusier’s urbanism."[Leatherbarrow, David, and Mohsen Mostafavi *Surface Architecture*. 2002.]

03. "The window is set with caulk at the perimeter with adhesive ﬂashing tapes overlaying the window ﬂange at the jamb and head."[Barry G. Hardman, Carl R. Wagus, and editors Theresa A. Weston *Performance and Durability of the Window-Wall Interface (ASTM special technical publication, 1484)*. 2006.]

04. "in diameter, is fired at a window at 55 mph (130 fps). In both tests, the window glass may shatter but the impact membrane must not rip or tear. The missiledamaged window then moves to the next test: • Rain test (also known as a water infiltration test). The damaged window is now mounted in a wall assembly as recommended by the manufacturer. A 2,800 hp radial engine, with propeller mounted in place, is then positioned in front of the window."[Dodson, David W., and John Mittendorf *The Art of Reading Buildings*. PennWell,Fire Engineering Books, 2014.]

05. "PAGE 62 i/INDOV 1886 Storm window patent, C. F. Teufel: "the present invention  has for its object to provide a storm-window, to be attached to the  frame of an ordinary window to keep out the cold air and snow,  and also prevent frost upon the window-panes. " The Ritual Storage: When not in  use, storm windows,  or "storms," can now  be stored efficiently  until the fall thanks  to the "Stor-a-way"  system, advertised in a  1949 issue of Popular  Science. "[INPUT: window.pdf]

06. "Palladian Window This window has an arched or “Sunburst” top window with straight panes below the arch."[M.K., Makridakis, and Holland M. *How to Create Rooms of Radiance. Windows Treatments Made Simple*. 2003.]

07. "Please refer to the Source Guide for additional information. Stoehr, Kathleen, 1960The window decorating book / by Kathleen S. Stoehr & Charles T. Randall. p. cm. Includes bibliographical references and index. ISBN 1-890379-17-4 1. Draperies. 2. Window shades. 3. Windows in interior decoration."[Stoehr, Kathleen S., and Charles T. Randall *The Window Decorating Book*. Charles Randall, Inc., 2009.]

08. "Exterior Stop The removable molding or bead that holds the light or panel in place when it is on the exterior side of the light or panel. Face Glazing Glazing set with putty in an L-shaped or rabbetred frame. Fanlight A semicircular window over a door or window, with bars that spread out from the center like an open fan. False Window Also blank window, blind window."[York, New *Repairing Old and Historic Windows: A Manual for Architects and Homeowners*. Washington, D.C: Preservation Press, National Trust for Historic Preservation, 1992.]

09. "Energy loss is greatest at the point  where the glass meets the sash (sliding frame) and where the sash meets  the window jambs. The simplest way  to combat this without replacing the  window or sashes is to caulk the  exterior of the window, weatherstrip  the interior, have transparent heat-  reflecting film applied to the glass  and use insulating window treatments, such as lined draperies. "[INPUT: window.pdf]

10. "The BS 8206 criterion is met provided that the window wall faces within 90° of due south and no obstruction, measured in the section perpendicular to the window wall, subtends an angle of more than 25° to the horizontal (see Figure 2. 1). (NB obstructions within 90° of due north of the window need not count here. )2. 1. 4. 1 Case study: how much light does a window receive?"[Engineers, Chartered Institute of Building Services *Daylighting and Window Design (CIBSE Lighting Guide)*. Chartered Institution of Building Services Engineers, 1999.]

11. "615 Dormers on terrace; Port Sunlight, Cheshire; 1890s. 187 Unusual Windows 616 Gable window; Hampstead, London; c. 1885. 617 Sash window on brick terrace; Cambridge; c. 1840. 618 Steel window with concrete rustic lintel; Smithfield, London; 1980s. 619 Wooden-frame window on circular house; A La Ronde, Exmouth, Devon; 1798. 620 Carved stone basement window; Burford, Oxfordshire; c. 1700."[Lewis, Philippa *House  British Domestic Architecture*. Prestel, 2011.]

12. "However, garden windows can be used in any room of the house. Garden window Ranch or Strip Window Ranch or strip window This window will most often be found high up off of the floor and is commonly used in ranch style homes. Single Hung Window A simple up and down sliding window where the bottom sash portion is operational but the top sash is fixed in place."[M.K., Makridakis, and Holland M. *How to Create Rooms of Radiance. Windows Treatments Made Simple*. 2003.]

13. "mulled to fixed pane picture window with integral flange 36 × 36 in."[Barry G. Hardman, Carl R. Wagus, and editors Theresa A. Weston *Performance and Durability of the Window-Wall Interface (ASTM special technical publication, 1484)*. 2006.]

14. "An imitation window thatserves no purpose other than to give the appearance of a window for symmetry or for decoration."[York, New *Repairing Old and Historic Windows: A Manual for Architects and Homeowners*. Washington, D.C: Preservation Press, National Trust for Historic Preservation, 1992.]

15. "Window Removal Different circumstances warrant different venting procedures."[Dunn, Vincent *Safety and Survival on the Fireground*. Saddle Brook, N.J: Fire Engineering Books & Videos, 1992.]

16. "Mezzanine window A window on a lower storey between two main storeys, usually the piano nobile and attic."[Hopkins, Owen *Reading Architecture  A Visual Lexicon*. Laurence King, 2012.]

17. "Unless you rarely open the windows, you will need screens. New casement windows have sophisticated crank mechanisms that operate underneath the actual moving window sash, so the screen can be fixed on the inside of the window, assuming that the window will open out. The out-swing window is usually preferable, since the open window does not intrude on your interior space."[Labau, Peter *The New Bungalow Kitchen*. Taunton Press, 2007.]

18. "250 / 251 1 Façade Construction Details Circular Window (Left): 1. Circular rainwater deflector, RAL 9006 coated aluminium 2. RT 62 circular window frame 3. Prefabricated insulated window mounting 4. Masonry, white glazed brick, glued 5. Insulation, mineral wool 6. Waterproof foil 7. In-situ concrete 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 1 9 2 3 4 5 6 7 Roof Construction Details (Facing Right): 1."[Liu, Helen *Residential Skin & Details*. DesignMedia Publishing Limited, 2013.]

19. "Consider all of the wonderful uses for fabric at the window: an interlined silk pinch pleat panel hanging stately in a historical home; a simple sheer brushing lazily against a window frame; a dainty gingham checked café curtain decorating a kitchen. Fabric at the window softens edges, emphasizes (or de-emphasizes) architectural qualities and shortcomings and provides a needed barrier between the outside elements and the inner harmony of the home."[Stoehr, Kathleen S., and Charles T. Randall *The Window Decorating Book*. Charles Randall, Inc., 2009.]

20. "C Cabinet window The wooden cabinet-like, traditionally multipaned window found in shopfronts."[Hopkins, Owen *Reading Architecture  A Visual Lexicon*. Laurence King, 2012.]

21. "Support the unit with notched 2 × 4s under the bottom edge of the window until it has been fastened securely to the framing. The inside edge of the window sleeve should be flush with the interior wall surface. Check the sill of the garden window for level. Shim beneath the lower side of the sill, if necessary, to make it level. Once the garden window is in place and level, hold a piece of window trim in place along the exterior of the window and trace the outline onto the siding."[coll. *The Complete Guide to Windows & Entryways*. Cool Springs Press, 2008.]

22. "The neatly cut edges of the wallpaper (decorative paper) cover the joins between the printed acetate window and the assemblage. Artist: Lisa Myers-Bulmash GOTHIC HOUSE ATTIC STAINED-GLASS WINDOWS Gothic House Gypsy Den The back window of the Gothic House Gypsy Den is trimmed with a purchased paper window frame and a small wooden piece used as a window ledge."[Oliveau, Tally, and Julie Molina *Mixed-Media Dollhouses: Techniques and Ideas for Doll-size Assemblages*. Quarry Books, 2010.]

23. "582 Wooden-frame cross-head window with casements; Abinger Hammer, Surrey; c. 1660."[Lewis, Philippa *House  British Domestic Architecture*. Prestel, 2011.]

24. "This is relatively easy to achieve when there is a membrane that can be lapped over the window frame or turned to the outside. Cavities without flexible sheet membranes are more difficult to detail. In some existing recommendations, a sloping channel is provided above the window to divert water away from the window head. The most likely source of water at this point would be from a defective window (or other penetration) above."[al Wright, C. et *Insulated render systems used with light steel framing*. Steel Construction Institute, 2006.]

25. "An ingenious device to siphon daylight deeply into a building, this glazed opening serves also to share illumination between rooms demanding acoustic separation, so as to spread light in a peaceful way, free of disrupting noise. Dining Room Window onto Kitchen Stair Church Family Dwelling House Hancock, Massachusetts Window between Kitchen Stair and Dining Room Church Family Dwelling House Hancock, Massachusetts Window onto Landing of Stair Spin Shop Canterbury, New Hampshire Closet Window Center Family Dwelling House Pleasant Hill, Kentucky DOUBLE WINDOW By guiding a portion of daylight directly across an intervening space, the double window illuminates two different rooms at once, ordinarily a perimeter stair and a room further inside."[Plummer, Henry *Stillness and Light: The Silent Eloquence of Shaker Architecture*. Indiana University Press, 2009.]