Created: 2025-12-30 01:46:30
Origin: suggested
Selected: The fact that the colour on the walls alters when a cloud passes over the sun and looks different throughout the day or even across the seasons is what makes the paint feel alive. It is this quality that gives an interior a unique sense of depth and atmosphere. Second, it is preferable to look at the colour in the correct light. If you are decorating a space used exclusively at night, such as a dining room, you may want to view the colour by candlelight. Third, it is often useful to see the colour in relation to the decorative scheme of an adjoining space – these subtle tones are best perceived in context rather than in isolation.[Studholme, Joa, and Charlotte Cosby *Farrow & Ball How to Decorate: Transform Your Home with Paint & Paper*. Mitchell Beazley, 2016.]

--- Context List ---
01. "The fact that the colour on the walls alters when a cloud passes over the sun and looks different throughout the day or even across the seasons is what makes the paint feel alive. It is this quality that gives an interior a unique sense of depth and atmosphere. Second, it is preferable to look at the colour in the correct light. If you are decorating a space used exclusively at night, such as a dining room, you may want to view the colour by candlelight. Third, it is often useful to see the colour in relation to the decorative scheme of an adjoining space – these subtle tones are best perceived in context rather than in isolation."[Studholme, Joa, and Charlotte Cosby *Farrow & Ball How to Decorate: Transform Your Home with Paint & Paper*. Mitchell Beazley, 2016.]

02. "People feel most relaxed in rooms that have some variation in color and light. Uniform light may give an office a businesslike atmosphere, but such light becomes boring for relaxation or dining. Color can change the size of a room. Walls painted a dark or bright color can make a room seem smaller than it is. Such colors give the illusion that the walls are closer to the room's center than they actually are. On the other hand, pale colors can make a room appear larger. The combination of different colors makes up an interiors color scheme."[Н.М., Філіппова, and Смуглякова М.К. *Focus on Design. Part Two. Interior Design*. 2017.]

03. "It is always tempting to use light colours in small, dark spaces, but this generally results in a dull, visually unappetizing room. Although a strong colour in such a space might seem counterintuitive, the results can be wonderfully theatrical and much more exciting than any attempt made to create light by painting a room white. Interconnecting rooms can benefit from a subtle, tone-on-tone approach and using colours that have equal strength is particularly harmonious. However, an entrance hall, especially one with little or no natural light, that is painted a dark colour exudes glamour at the point of arrival and means that every room leading off it feels bigger and brighter."[Studholme, Joa, and Charlotte Cosby *Farrow & Ball How to Decorate: Transform Your Home with Paint & Paper*. Mitchell Beazley, 2016.]

04. "A room with windows on different elevations varies the interplay of colour, texture and reﬂected direct light: gentle rhythmic daylight can change our thought patterns and mood. Being able to see the sky and landscape through clear glass windows keeps us connected with the natural environment and avoids sensory deprivation and the feeling of being trapped. Working in large, openplan ofﬁces with regimented rows of desks where the ceiling heights are oppressively low, the lighting scheme is bland and the décor is dull and visually uninteresting, can induce feelings of claustrophobia, lethargy and boredom."[Saunders, Thomas *The Boiled Frog Syndrome: Your Health and the Built Environment*. 2002.]

05. "Le Corbusier decided to place different types of glass in these openings: clear glass, coloured glass, and glass painted with simple motifs, some of which bear inscriptions of praise to the Holy Virgin. The architect’s decision to use clear glass and to splash only a few precise places with touches of colour corresponds to his wish to keep a tight rein on the use of light – a primordial element in the definition of the interior volumes. The colours employed are the same as those for the door: blue, red, yellow, green and violet."[Pauly, Daniele *Le Corbusier: the Chapel at Ronchamp*. Birkhäuser Architecture, 2008.]

06. "If the main entrance and corridors of a hospital are painted with shades of violet the feeling of low self-esteem often experienced by those suffering an illness may be dispelled. The strength or tonal value of the colour varies the degree and quality of inﬂuence: for example, a subtle, pale ‘pastel’ shade will be less pervasive and imperative than a solid primary colour. These colour codings may highlight why we prefer or respond to certain colour combinations and explain how light and colour can be an effective healing treatment."[Saunders, Thomas *The Boiled Frog Syndrome: Your Health and the Built Environment*. 2002.]

07. "Where tinted glasses are used (normally in commercial buildings), the colour of the glass in the windows tends not to affect occupant perceptions (39) although in a model study(40) a preference for a warm colour such as bronze was noted. However, this is only true if all the glass that can be viewed simultaneously is of the same colour and no windows are open. An outdoor view through an open window or clear glass will reveal the true nature of tinted glazing and may make people less satisfied with it."[Engineers, Chartered Institute of Building Services *Daylighting and Window Design (CIBSE Lighting Guide)*. Chartered Institution of Building Services Engineers, 1999.]

08. "In addition to avoiding the overuse of artiﬁcial light and the heat generated by artiﬁcial light ﬁxtures, rooms with daylight also beneﬁt their occupants, who appreciate experiencing the dynamic qualities of natural light as it changes throughout the day. In general, light ﬁxtures are designed not to be noticed; however, designs that conceal the light source limit the perceptible qualities of ﬁre as light. Unlike ﬁre, artiﬁcial light ﬁxtures cannot offer perceptible experiences of heat, sound or smell to the senses, but when make visible, they offer a sense of orientation and direction."[Yglesias, Caren *The Innovative Use of Materials in Architecture and Landscape Architecture: History, Theory and Performance*. McFarland, 2014.]

09. "Rooms, to adapt a Shaker phrase, became “clothed with the sun, which typifies divine light. ”30 For the same reason, yellow-painted window reveals bring to mind a halo, nimbus, or aureole, as do, more abstractly, the yellow trim and peg rails outlining white plaster. With so much radiation captured and shining in simple rooms, one can readily think of the Shaker interior as a construct of light as much as matter, a construct able to satisfy the “pleading” of the Shaker “soul” for “a nearer relation to its Creator and for light, more light. ”31 Reinforcing this impression is a close correspondence between the Shakers' own rainbow-like palette—red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet, playing off a brilliant white ground—and the colors of light found in the sky."[Plummer, Henry *Stillness and Light: The Silent Eloquence of Shaker Architecture*. Indiana University Press, 2009.]

10. "Colour can also modify an architectural space or indeed completely transform it. In creating an atmosphere, colour plays an active part and was employed in this work by the architect to characterise certain points of the interior space: here colour is not a mere addition, but rather an element of the architecture itself, or indeed still more, for it is a functional component of the architecture, understood and employed for its spatial value and psychological impact."[Pauly, Daniele *Le Corbusier: the Chapel at Ronchamp*. Birkhäuser Architecture, 2008.]

11. "A uni form level of light all around dis tracts the eye. Plan task lighting so it comes from the right or the left of the view er; you'll find reading and writing much easier if you sit with your side to the window, not facing it. When the walls and ceiling-as well as the light shaft of a skylight , if you have one-are painted in a light, nonglossy color, they become secondary light sources that spread the light evenly over an area. This multidirectional lighting is perfect for setting a relaxed mood in a room; the reduced intensity of the light produces no glare or sharp contrasts."[*Windows & skylights* Menlo Park, Calif: Lane Pub. Co, 1982.]

12. "Within pared-down rooms, a restrained palette of natural materials, limited generally to smooth woodwork and white plaster, permits exceptionally subtle tonalities of light to strengthen in appearance. Each space and all of its parts become bathed in a unified, somewhat ethereal atmosphere that envelops objects, and makes them participants in an overall harmony—a total impression the eye can grasp at a single glance. Within the simplification process employed by Shakers, it was the color white—fresh and untainted, virtually immaterialized—which was most treasured for its spiritual perfection."[Plummer, Henry *Stillness and Light: The Silent Eloquence of Shaker Architecture*. Indiana University Press, 2009.]

13. "Instinctive decisions to approach or retreat are human responses to environmental stimuli, and this instinct is most reliable when the potential threat can be seen clearly. Artiﬁcial light has the ability to both provide general illumination and direct attention, and it is in this role that it supports human sentiment. Just as a chandelier in a dining room centers the space over the table, a center light enhances a feeling of coming together and of focus in a room meant for conferences."[Yglesias, Caren *The Innovative Use of Materials in Architecture and Landscape Architecture: History, Theory and Performance*. McFarland, 2014.]

14. "Many designers use the term tran-sitionalto describe an interior decorated in a combination of period and contemporary styles. 2. Color and Light What colour combinations are the examples of complementary colour scheme?How can different uses of colour change the size of a room?They together may be used in many ways to produce different effects. Dark-colored walls, for example, may absorb the light and make a room dimly lit. However, the same amount of light will appear brighter in a room with pale-colored walls because pale colors reflect light."[Н.М., Філіппова, and Смуглякова М.К. *Focus on Design. Part Two. Interior Design*. 2017.]

15. "But consider the opposite. Pale colors tend to feel dingy and flat in low light, so why not use the shadowy corners to your advantage and try a rich hue like dark brown or something regal like aubergine. Rooms that are used solely in the evening, such as a dining room, respond especially well to this treatment (see this page): Saturated colors bring complexity and warmth to a space."[Mayhew, Elizabeth *Flip! for Decorating  A Page-by-Page, Piece-by-Piece, Room-by-Room Guide to Transforming Your Home*. Ballantine Books, 2009.]

16. "Factors that help to induce a sense of ‘place’, therefore, are given particular consideration. One of the most effective of these factors is light, to the extent that light and space are inseparable and that when light is eliminated from a space the emotional content of space disappears. The essence of architectural space lies in the interaction of the elements that define it. We can observe the relevance of the indivisible interplay of space and light in the case of the courtyard house."[Edwards, Brian *Courtyard Housing*. Taylor & Francis Group, 2006.]

17. "Living spaces and bedrooms feel more comfortable with soft light that fills the entire room. Often, in these areas, the main source of ambient light is a pendant lamp in the centre of the ceiling. You can also use table or floor lamps to illuminate dark corners and provide a softer overall effect or fit dimmers on lamps and ceiling lights to allow you to change the mood."[May, Alex *Planning Your Perfect Home Renovation: Save time and money with this essential guide to fuss-free home improvements*. 2005.]

18. "That said, it can also be an overwhelming process as the options are limitless. And what looks good on a one-inch paint chip can look very different when you’ve dipped a whole room in it. What goes wrong between loving the paint swatch and hating the painted room?It’s usually comes down to light. The way a room receives (or doesn’t receive) light is the biggest factor in how you perceive color. Too much light and paint loses its saturation and looks like a photo that’s been overexposed by a flashbulb."[Mayhew, Elizabeth *Flip! for Decorating  A Page-by-Page, Piece-by-Piece, Room-by-Room Guide to Transforming Your Home*. Ballantine Books, 2009.]

19. "Almost all the light enters indirectly from concealed or screened openings. Colour is introduced, in an almost baroque manner, either through coloured glass or by reflection from concealed, painted surfaces. The white plaster is animated by a rich disposition of many hues (Figures 9. 18–9. 20). Holl precisely reports the process by which these effects were conceived and executed: The procession is lit by diffused natural sunlight. In the nave a yellow field is combined with a blue lens to the east, and a blue field with a yellow lens to the west."[Hawkes, Dean *The Environmental Imagination: technics and poetics of the architectural environment*. Routledge, 2008.]

20. "The other parts of the light in the spectrum are absorbed or Jess readily transmitted. The intensity of the colour depends on the amount of colouring agent, e. g. cobalt oxide, present in the glass. 42 THE INFLUENCE OF GLASS THICKNESS ON LIGHT TRANSMITTANCE There are many different methods by which colours can be defined. Spectral transmittance curves give accurate definitions of coloured glasses. Such transmittance curves are shown in Figure 5. 1 and Figure 5. 4. 100 90 ~Cll 80 g ~ 60 ·e Ill ~ ~ V\ 70 5o f---- 40 30 f---20 f--10 f--- v\1~\ I 11\ I I I I I I 1 ,, \:. __ l•\ -\ 1/4 in Grey glass , v ~ ') ' F-" ~ w~ ."[(auth.), Rune Persson *Flat Glass Technology*. Springer US, 1969.]

21. "5. 6 The Number of Windows Look around to see how much light is coming into the room as well as the level of artificial light provided. A room with two windows will obviously provide you the opportunity to work with bolder colors and patterns since there will be more natural light. A room with only one window will require light and bright colors. Stay away from dark heavy colors or large patterns because they take light away from this room visually."[M.K., Makridakis, and Holland M. *How to Create Rooms of Radiance. Windows Treatments Made Simple*. 2003.]

22. "The house needed to suit his specific aesthetic considerations and have the flexibility. Materials were selected by architects to create a calm and contemplative feeling. The pale colours reflect light in all spaces complementing the casual feel of the house. Polished porcelain tiles were used throughout – large, light and seamless, ensuring uniformity between spaces. Moreover, it features the joinery – single tone and understated, with stylish square door “knobs” in bedrooms as well as “Walnut” cladding to the cantilever tread with rich contrasting colour."[Liu, Helen *Residential Skin & Details*. DesignMedia Publishing Limited, 2013.]

23. "Good lighting can create a warm atmosphere, highlight a beautiful object or transform the character of an interior by introducing areas of light and shadow. Bleak, overhead and bare light bulbs make a space seem unfriendly and unrelaxing, while a few table lamps or uplights can make a room seem soothing and welcoming. Light that’s too bright just dazzles and drains, and a dim, dark room is depressing. There are three different types of lighting: Renno Planner pages 23/6/05 2:13 PM Page 112 112—planning your perfect home renovation ■ Atmospheric—Ambient or atmospheric refers to a room’s overall lighting and the mood it creates."[May, Alex *Planning Your Perfect Home Renovation: Save time and money with this essential guide to fuss-free home improvements*. 2005.]

24. "20 In addition, Soane consistently used colour to modify the effect of light. This was achieved in two ways. First, he used coloured glass directly to modify the tonality of the light that entered a building, false or mysterious light. Second, he made precise judgements about the colours that he painted internal surfaces and, thereby, controlled the nature of reflected light. In developing these techniques Soane referred to sources Soane, Labrouste, Mackintosh – pioneers of environment 7 env_imag_fourk. qxd 5/7/07 9:26 am Page 8 such as the contemporary philosophy of Edmund Burke, the aesthetic theories of Goethe, Kant and Price and the scientific work of Thomas Young, Sir David Brewster and Moses Harris."[Hawkes, Dean *The Environmental Imagination: technics and poetics of the architectural environment*. Routledge, 2008.]

25. "Also, either singly or grouped, they create a stunning effect. A reproduction ceiling fixture faithfully represents one style that was popular during the Bungalow era. The square, frosted glass shades are a common Arts and Crafts pattern that together with the dark brass fitters and short chains create a strong single light source. The short chains keep the shades close to the white ceiling, which helps to cast the light throughout the room."[Labau, Peter *The New Bungalow Kitchen*. Taunton Press, 2007.]