Created: 2025-12-12 20:32:24
Origin: searched
Selected: Bell, Bryan and Wakeford, Katie (eds. ). (2008). Expanding Architecture: Design as Activism. New York: Metropolis Books. ISBN 1-93304578-7. Expanding Architecture presents a new generation of creative design carried out in the service of the greater public and the greater good. Questioning how design can improve daily lives, editors Bryan Bell and Katie Wakeford map an emerging geography of architectural activism—or “public-interest architecture”— that might function akin to public-interest law or medicine by expanding architecture’s all too often elite client base.[Waldrep, Lee W. *Becoming an Architect: A Guide to Careers in Design*. 2nd ed. Wiley, 2009.]

--- Context List ---
01. "p. cm. — (Writing architecture) Includes bibliographical references and index. ISBN 0-262-57149-8 (pbk. : alk. paper) 1. Architecture—Philosophy. 2. Space (Architecture)—Philosophy. I. Title. II. Series. NA2500 . G76 2001 720´. 1—dc21 2001018300 Acknowledgments vii Foreword by Peter Eisenman xi Introduction xv Part One Embodied Spaces one Embodying Space: An Interview two Lived Spatiality (The Spaces of Corporeal Desire) 31 Futures, Cities, Architecture 49 four Architecture from the Outside 57 ﬁve Cyberspace, Virtuality, and the Real: Some three 3 Part Two Transitional Spaces Architectural Reflections six 75 In-Between: The Natural in Architecture and Culture 91 Part Three Future Spaces seven The Future of Space: Toward an Architecture of Invention 109 eight Embodied Utopias: The Time of Architecture 131 nine Architectures of Excess 151 The Thing 167 ten Notes 185 Bibliography 207 Index 215 I am an outsider to the ﬁeld of architecture."[Grosz, Elizabeth *Architecture from the Outside: Essays on Virtual and Real Space (Writing Architecture)*. 2001.]

02. "It is here that it is instructive to position the engagement and use of new digital media within architecture as part of these larger cultural transformations; for there is a parallel rise between the use of digital technology within architecture and popular entertainment. During the period that architecture slowly moved to adopt digital means of drawing and modelling these systems were producing ever more ‘realistic’ representations of architectural space within popular game environments."[Arya, Rina *Francis Bacon: Critical and Theoretical Perspectives*. Peter Lang International Academic Publishers, 2012.]

03. "It requires perception } of thermal and luminous phenomenon that are not visible in the same sense as architectural space. Boundaries in the thermal or luminous environment are subtle and not sharply defined. 33 Whereas architecture as building emphasizes an iconic image—singularity and static fixity, the metaphors of architecture as organism and architecture as furnishing a larger room suggest a dynamic, open, less formal and more fluid style. By demanding recognition of something beyond the work itself these metaphors critically promote the architectural function as the intertwining of making and world producing the spatial potentiality for the intertwining of (human) organisms and environment."[(auth.), Gary Backhaus, Gary Backhaus, and John Murungi (eds.) *Symbolic Landscapes*. Springer Netherlands, 2009.]

04. "Mies’s later work epitomizes the architectonic issues implied in Benjamin’s remarks on the conversion of natural material into building material, and the contrast between historical style and constructive style. At the same time, Mies’s architecture deterritorializes the modernist understanding of architecture; his work has left most contemporary architects with no choice but to return to the ethos of historical eclecticism, or to the tradition of the historical avant-garde, now approached through digital techniques. 41 Second, Benjamin’s assertion that technique determines the formal in art and architecture needs a detailed discussion of the way mediatic techniques transform form in architecture."[Hartoonian, Gevork *Walter Benjamin and architecture*. London, New York: Routledge, 2010.]

05. "Bell, Bryan and Wakeford, Katie (eds. ). (2008). Expanding Architecture: Design as Activism. New York: Metropolis Books. ISBN 1-93304578-7. Expanding Architecture presents a new generation of creative design carried out in the service of the greater public and the greater good. Questioning how design can improve daily lives, editors Bryan Bell and Katie Wakeford map an emerging geography of architectural activism—or “public-interest architecture”— that might function akin to public-interest law or medicine by expanding architecture’s all too often elite client base."[Waldrep, Lee W. *Becoming an Architect: A Guide to Careers in Design*. 2nd ed. Wiley, 2009.]

06. "It is not used solely to build an argument or rationalize form but to disturb our process of design and expose unique social, environmental, and cultural issues embedded in the initial constraints of each project. As a design evolves, we renegotiate its conceptual framework through a process that is inherently fluid, adaptive, and self-critical. We use research to undermine many assumptions about architecture as a discipline, such as the fixity of building type, the hierarchy of facade and entry, the rigid nature of program, and the universal and global character that modern architecture has put into place."[James, Vincent, and Jennifer Yoos *VJAA: Vincent James Associates Architects*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2006.]

07. ": : : , , : : 164 : A A THE AESTHETICS OF ARCHITECTURE Muschenheim, W. : The 'Elements of the Art of Architecture (Thomas Hudson 1956). Patrick, M. and Tree, M. Pevsner, N. : Career in Architecture (Museum & Press 1961). of 'England Series (Penguin 195 1, etc. ). Outline of European Architecture (Penguin 7th ed. 1963). Pevsner, N. Richardson, A. E. and Corfiato, H. O. The Art of Architecture (E. U. P. 'Buildings : An : : 1938). ^ History of Architecture (Batsford 1950)."[West, T. W *A history of architecture in England*. 2nd ed. David McKay Company,Inc., 1966.]

08. "In this sense the affirmative becomes a way of redeeming the avant-garde. Eisenman, op. cit. , p. 169. P. Eisenman, ‘The Blue Line Text’, in Architectural Design, vol. 58, no. 7/8, August 1988. ibid. , p. 172. P. Johnson and M. Wigley, Deconstructive Architecture (Museum of Modern Art, New York, 1988), p. 56. P. Eisenman, ‘Bio-Centrum Frankfurt’, in Architectural Design, vol. 59, no. 1/2, 1989. Eisenman, Houses of Cards, p. 181."[Benjamin, Andrew *Art, Mimesis and the Avant-Garde: Aspects of a philosophy of difference*. 1991.]

09. "These are the underlying geometrical regulating lines that in painting have served to organize scenographic depth and in architecture to control proportional relationships. Architecture’s close relationship to these drawn geometric practices is exactly what the Bacon-derived Deleuzean concept of the figure has challenged. Deleuze’s description of Bacon’s work as a materially ‘af fective’ field that directly acts on the observer has served to foster a new framework of understanding for the diagrammatic in what otherwise has become an overly conventionalized tool within architecture."[Arya, Rina *Francis Bacon: Critical and Theoretical Perspectives*. Peter Lang International Academic Publishers, 2012.]

10. "Srygley interprets the main street-like development as presenting an allegory that critiques both the suburban landscape that it extols and the urban landscape that it shuns. It presents this allegory through the architectural oxymoron of a private public space. Nevertheless, due to an urban, historical amnesia, whereby people no longer understand what quality urban space is about, this allegorical critique is not experienced, rather, the ersatz main street makes for a “successful” con. It is precisely the absence of a veritable embodied urban experience that allows for a cheap imitation “to work. ” In chapter eight, “Metaphor, Environmental Receptivity, and Architectural Design,” Brook Muller discusses the important role of metaphor in architectural design."[(auth.), Gary Backhaus, Gary Backhaus, and John Murungi (eds.) *Symbolic Landscapes*. Springer Netherlands, 2009.]

11. "Fig. 8. 6 Architecture as Organism: crystallization of intention encourages weakening of form Metaphor, Environmental Receptivity, and Architectural Design 199 8. 5. 2 Entertaining New Vocabularies: Edge/Corridor Effects Research is underway to develop alternative building materials, to advance energy performance, and to more efficiently “harvest” on site resources so as to minimize “off-site” environmental problems."[(auth.), Gary Backhaus, Gary Backhaus, and John Murungi (eds.) *Symbolic Landscapes*. Springer Netherlands, 2009.]

12. "In short, can architecture be thought, in connection with other series, as assemblage?What would this entail?What are the implications of opening up architectural discourses to Deleuzian desire-as-production?Can architecture work (its or an) outside?What is it to open up architecture to thought, to force, to life, to the outside?By outside I do not mean the practical, ﬁnancial, and aesthetic exigencies of building design and construction, nor even the demands on architecture to align with the environment, a landscape, interior design, interior or exterior artworks, which in a certain sense are all “inside” architecture and its history, part of the necessary structure of compromise that produces a building as a commodity."[Grosz, Elizabeth *Architecture from the Outside: Essays on Virtual and Real Space (Writing Architecture)*. 2001.]

13. "doubleNegatives Architecture consists of Sota Ichikawa, Max Rheiner (Switzerland), Ákos Maróy (Hungary), and Kaoru Kobata (Japan). With the installation Corpora in Si(gh)te (Japan 2007), they have constructed self-organizing systems in interior and exterior space and displayed the process of their development (Plate 26). Therein lies an alternative aesthetic approach towards built environments (architecture) and dominant visual regimes (predominantly linear perspective)."[Ulrik, Ekman, Bolter Jay David, and Díaz Lily (Eds). *Ubiquitous Computing, Complexity and Culture*. 2017.]

14. "If one is considering climate and behavior, the design of a building can become very complex. Climate-sensitive vernacular buildings are the product of a more evolutionary design process, where social behavior and environmental conditions are negotiated in generational cycles of construction. The current placeless global market for architects coupled with rapidly changing technologies has compressed design time and disconnected design processes from local practices. The assumption that responsiveness to the temporal field is already embedded in any building program or in the norms of architectural production is a fallacy of contemporary practice."[James, Vincent, and Jennifer Yoos *VJAA: Vincent James Associates Architects*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2006.]

15. "Or conversely, and equally plausibly: Is architecture not antithetical to the Deleuzian endeavor?Can there be such a thing as Deleuzian architecture, perhaps in analogous fash- ion to the (relatively) easy absorption of the work of Jacques Derrida into architecture through a partially bizarre reading of deconstruction and poststructuralism, terms that have parallel trajectories in architecture and philosophy?2 Can architecture incorporate/appropriate—that is, cannibalize—nomadology or rhizomatics as readily as it has deconstruction?"[Grosz, Elizabeth *Architecture from the Outside: Essays on Virtual and Real Space (Writing Architecture)*. 2001.]