Created: 2025-12-02 19:56:06
Origin: searched
Selected: This example with the clock is on the one hand a good example that illustrates the texturation approach as presented in this book. One the other hand, it is also a good example of how this complementary approach that integrates interaction design thinking with a perspective rooted in architecture as presented in this book can be of practical help for analyzing and understanding technology integration in context. This relate to a set of important messages in this book.[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

--- Context List ---
01. "This example with the clock is on the one hand a good example that illustrates the texturation approach as presented in this book. One the other hand, it is also a good example of how this complementary approach that integrates interaction design thinking with a perspective rooted in architecture as presented in this book can be of practical help for analyzing and understanding technology integration in context. This relate to a set of important messages in this book."[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

02. "The framework divides the analysis and design space of interactive visualization tools into four landmark categories: access-based, annotationbased, construction-based, and combination-based (see Table 16. 1). Each category represents an overall structure within which users operate upon visual information. The framework discusses what knowledge and cognitive activities each category 350 K. Sedig serves. In access-based interactive mathematical visualization tools, the overall operation by which users interact with information is access; that is, users access the stored, available, existent MVs or MV-templates which are already contained in the tools."[Zudilova-Seinstra, Elena, Tony Adriaansen, Robert van Liere (auth.), Robert Liere, Tony Adriaansen, and Elena Zudilova-Seinstra (eds.) *Trends in Interactive Visualization: State-of-the-Art Survey*. Springer-Verlag London, 2009.]

03. "the task-artifact model (Carroll & Rosson, 1992), task analysis (e. g. , Pinelle, et al. , 2003), and the reference task model Copyright © 2011, IGI Global. Copying or distributing in print or electronic forms without written permission of IGI Global is prohibited. Interaction 23 (Whittaker, et al. , 1997). It also takes into account the models developed in related areas of research, including relevant CSCW literature. The literature review also shows a number of workplace interaction models (e. g. , Suchman 1995, Whittaker et al."[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

04. "In this experiment, we have the first software-based experiment successfully “turning” the screen by 180 degrees—so to speak. Rather than be seen as a surface onto which to input data, CRT screens are here both inputting and outputting data in a constant dialogue with the end user. Sutherland saw the introduction of digital computers in the design not as a mere passive translation of ordinary drafting tools into computer language, but rather as an active process in which the very qualities of the architecture of computation demanded a different way to conceive design."[Bottazzi, Roberto *Digital Architecture Beyond Computers: Fragments of a Cultural History of Computational Design*. Hardcover. Bloomsbury Visual Arts, 2018.]

05. "It is now time to summarize the lessons learned from the first chapter of the book. From my perspective the main purpose with this chapter was to establish a conceptual platform for one of the core concepts for this book, i. e. “interaction”. Since interaction is one critical concept, not only for this book, but for this emergent field of interactive architecture and the texturing of information technologies into our built environments it has been somewhat crucial to pay some extra attention to this concept."[Wiberg, Mikael *Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies*. Engineering Science Reference, 2010.]

06. "These machines led the way for the development of systems with magnetic memory, video displays, computer language, simulation and graphic display techniques. For instance, an early interactive graphical user interface that facilitated one-toone engagement of users with machines was Sketchpad (1962), which had an immense influence on the development of virtual reality, computer graphics Contextualizing Interactive Architecture 131 and human–machine interaction. 17 Interactivity is also rooted in the work and ideas of early computer scientists and pioneers, such as Vannevar Bush, Douglas Engelbart and Alan Kay, who explored ideas and techniques for individual access to and management of information in the early post-war period. 18 Thus, the initial technical meaning of interaction meant user control of information; users could modify and override the running operations, in real time, by means of graphical displays, dialogue boxes and menus, so that they could see the results of their intervention in real time. 19 Interactivity acquired new meanings in the 1990s within the context of computer-based (digital) media."[Yiannoudes, Socrates *Architecture and Adaptation: From Cybernetics to Tangible Computing*. Routledge, 2016.]

07. "Preface vii Then, Ingo Wassink et al. present a user-centred approach to the design of interactive visualization systems. They explain the importance of context-of-use in visualization design, evaluate different methodologies and techniques for user and task analysis, and discuss practical challenges in design and evaluation of collaborative visualization environments. In the last chapter of this section, Ross Brown, Simon Joslin, and Penny Drennan describe the development life cycle of a collaborative virtual environment and introduce the automatic visualization framework to assist in evaluation and analysis of the usage data."[Zudilova-Seinstra, Elena, Tony Adriaansen, Robert van Liere (auth.), Robert Liere, Tony Adriaansen, and Elena Zudilova-Seinstra (eds.) *Trends in Interactive Visualization: State-of-the-Art Survey*. Springer-Verlag London, 2009.]

08. "One aspect of poetic interpretation concerns an allegorical, or metaphorical understanding of the text. Since the semantic literature on metaphorical interpretation is abundant, I at first restrain the topic of poetic interpretation to the metaphorical interpretation of poetic text, and consider to what extent theories on metaphor help explain it. I consider first semantic perspectives, and then cognitive perspectives on metaphor. Throughout the discussion of different theories, I focus on possible implications for the metaphorical interpretation of poetic text."[Brouwer, Elisabeth Cathérine *Imagining Metaphors: Cognitive Representation in Interpretation and Understanding*. Institute for Logic, Language and Computation Universiteit van Amsterdam, 2003.]

09. "As is well known, structural principles were ﬁrst applied with the greatest success to phonology, and then to lexical semantics and to syntactic rules. The structural analysis of the narrative may be regarded as one attempt to extend or transpose this model of linguistic entities beyond the 7 Cf. Roland Barthes, ‘Introduction à l’analyse structurale du récit’, Communications, 8 (1966), pp. 1–27 [English translation: ‘Introduction to the structural analysis of narratives’, in Image-Music-Text, edited and translated by Stephen Heath (London: Fontana/Collins, 1977), pp."[Ricoeur, Paul, and John B. Thompson *Hermeneutics and the Human Sciences: Essays on Language, Action and Interpretation*. Reissue. Cambridge University Press, 2016.]

10. "The poetic nature of a text is then not so much a property of the text drawing attention to itself, but rather, depends on contextual presentation, and on the social convention that some formal aspects of a text should draw the interpreter's attention to the text in itself. Thus, to recognize a text as being part of a poetic context allows a reader to approach the text as one of which the value has been established previously, and thus presents a 'normal' context for poetic interpretation. 4 The realm of imagination The feature of objective disinterestedness in aesthetic judgement, we saw, is echoed in Jakobson's notion of the poetic function, which draws the reader's attention to the purely formal qualities of the poetic message, and leads him to disregard the referential or objective function of the text."[Brouwer, Elisabeth Cathérine *Imagining Metaphors: Cognitive Representation in Interpretation and Understanding*. Institute for Logic, Language and Computation Universiteit van Amsterdam, 2003.]

11. "Furthermore I am concerned with interpretation insofar as the text or expression allows for it, and not primarily with the actuality, relevance or justifiability of a given interpretation. In the following section, I consider what traditional, truth conditional semantics has to say on the analysis of poetic text; and it will soon be clear that we cannot derive the tools for a satisfying analysis of metaphorical interpretation from this field. This conclusion is much in line with what many semanticists have concluded, and in the remainder of this chapter I will look 8 Todorov[1981] p 7 8 I Metaphor: between language and cognition into some alternative semantic theories that are not principally concerned with a truth conditional understanding of meaning."[Brouwer, Elisabeth Cathérine *Imagining Metaphors: Cognitive Representation in Interpretation and Understanding*. Institute for Logic, Language and Computation Universiteit van Amsterdam, 2003.]

12. "The relatively new concept of Interactive Visualization (IV) aims to address this research concern. Launched in the 1990s, the field of IV has become very successful due to the basic idea behind it: utilizing the broad bandwidth of the human sensory system in interpreting and steering complex datasets, processes and simulations from diverse scientific disciplines. This chapter presents an overview of Interactive Visualization and is organized in the following way. In Sect. 1. 2, we introduce a basic model of the IV process and discuss possibilities for user interaction with the visualized data."[Zudilova-Seinstra, Elena, Tony Adriaansen, Robert van Liere (auth.), Robert Liere, Tony Adriaansen, and Elena Zudilova-Seinstra (eds.) *Trends in Interactive Visualization: State-of-the-Art Survey*. Springer-Verlag London, 2009.]

13. "Qian [Qia86] argued that the synthesis process (using qualitative or quantitative approaches) is an important aspect of brain activities. Hall [Hal89] comprehensively surveyed the computational eﬀorts to simulate analogous reasoning. Kapur [KM88] explored the application of artiﬁcial intelligence in geometrical reasoning. Pan et al. [Pan93, XP95, LPJ96, PG96, GP96, ZP97] has researched modeling visual information for intelligent computer-aided design."[Xu, Songhua, Francis C.M. Lau, and Yunhe Pan *A Computational Approach to Digital Chinese Painting and Calligraphy*. Springer, 2009.]

14. "In those sessions the process is modeled by an expert using an software tool. Participants can see how the process evolves and participate by providing input. We argue that TBPM fosters another level of participation because the participants do not have to channel their input through a tool operator. Also, the direct interaction with the process creates a different notion of responsibility for the result. Nevertheless, Persson’s recommendations [12] serve as a good guideline for group modeling sessions."[Lindberg, Tilmann, Christoph Meinel, Ralf Wagner (auth.), Christoph Meinel, Larry Leifer, and Hasso Plattner (eds.) *Design Thinking: Understand – Improve – Apply*. Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg, 2011.]

15. "This data allows insights into the structuring and coherence of information stored in a wiki system. A graphical representation of the project wiki spaces has been created with data received from d. store services. Three examples are shown in Fig. 7. The structures represent the final topology of a project wiki space, which is defined by the hyperlink relationships between wiki pages and external resources of different types. This simple form of observation already reveals that design teams utilize wikis quite differently."[Lindberg, Tilmann, Christoph Meinel, Ralf Wagner (auth.), Christoph Meinel, Larry Leifer, and Hasso Plattner (eds.) *Design Thinking: Understand – Improve – Apply*. Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg, 2011.]