Created: 2025-11-03 21:06:39
Origin: searched
Selected: There is something stony in a work of architecture, wooden in a carving, colored in a painting, spoken in a linguistic work, sonorous in a musical composition. The thingly element is so irremovably present in the art work that we are compelled rather to say conversely that the architectural work is in stone, the carving is in wood, the painting in color, the linguistic work in speech, the musical composition in sound. "Obviously," it will be replied. No doubt. But what is this self-evident thingly element in the work of art?[Poetry, Language, Thought , Martin Heidegger, 2001]

--- Context List ---
01. "There is something stony in a work of architecture, wooden in a carving, colored in a painting, spoken in a linguistic work, sonorous in a musical composition. The thingly element is so irremovably present in the art work that we are compelled rather to say conversely that the architectural work is in stone, the carving is in wood, the painting in color, the linguistic work in speech, the musical composition in sound. "Obviously," it will be replied. No doubt. But what is this self-evident thingly element in the work of art?"[Poetry, Language, Thought , Martin Heidegger, 2001]

02. "We are now confronted by a remarkable result of our considerations—if it still deserves to be called a result at all. Two points become clear: First: the dominant thing-concepts are inadequate as means of grasping the thingly aspect of the work. Second: what we tried to treat as the most immediate reality of the work, its thingly substructure, does not belong to the work in that way at all. As soon as we look for such a thingly substructure in the work, we have imwittingly taken work as equipment, to which we then also ascribe a superstructure supposed to contain its artistic quality."[Poetry, Language, Thought , Martin Heidegger, 2001]

03. "From the two latter instances we can isolate, by the simple means of cutting sections through the figures, an infinite number of flat rhythmic arrangements of shapes. In this way flat harmony may be said to be implicitly contained in mass harmony. The subject of decorative and more or less geometrical 76 MASS ORGANIZATION design is again one too special to be fully treated in this volume. Its laws really fall within those enunciated or suggested here ; their application to that particular case must be reserved for future treatment."[The art and craft of drawing, Vernon Blake, 1927]

04. "This insight and understanding are brought about by the arts in general on the plane of feeling and emotion, whence “art is the creation of forms symbolic of 612 The Contemporary Period human feeling. ”But music in particular is the presentational form par excellence, for its “tonal structures . . . bear a close logical similarity to the forms of human feeling. ” This analysis, begun in Philosophy in a New Key, is extended in Langer’s later work, Feeling and Form. For Langer, then, the human being is both receiver and communicator."[Historical introduction to philosophy, Hakim, Albert, 2016]

05. "Art works universally display a thingly character, The Origin of the Work of Art $0 39 albeit in a wholly distinct way. The attempt to interpret this thingcharacter of the work with the aid of the usual thing-concepts failed—not only because these concepts do not lay hold of the thingly feature, but because, in raising the question of its thingly substructure, we force the work into a preconceivedframeworkby which we obstruct our own access to the work-being of the work. Nothing can be discovered about the thingly aspect of the work so long as the pure self-subsistence of the work has not distincdy displayed itself."[Poetry, Language, Thought , Martin Heidegger, 2001]

06. "This is why I have chosen to reproducea view ofSalisbury Cathedral vaunted as an example of homogeneous work. Homogeneous work would seem to mean to Mr. Bond work of the same style, belonging to the same period. Again the underlying idea of tidiness and general conformity to evident rule reveals itself, to the damage of that higher and more difficult type of conformity to plastic law which enabled French architects to marry successfully styles separated by centuries. I have no hesitation in writing what I have just written, for Mr."[The art and craft of drawing, Vernon Blake, 1927]

07. "The two types of suppression or modification may seem alike to the uninstructed ; in reality they are far apart. The liberties that great draughtsmen,at different epochs and for different ends, have taken with natural form will, of course, be noted throughout this book. To say that exact copying of the model never has constituted—and never will—great drawing is no exaggeration. Theprecise reporting of facts, so necessary to worthyscientific research, must be eschewed in art."[The art and craft of drawing, Vernon Blake, 1927]

08. "Form as shape is not the consequence here of a prior distribution of the matter. The form, on the contrary, determines the arrangement of the matter. Even more, it 28 (& Poetry, Language, Thought prescribes in each case the kind and selection of the matter— impermeable for a jug, sufficiently hard for an ax, firm yet flexible for shoes. The interfusion of form and matter prevailing here is, moreover, controlled beforehand by the purposes served by jug, ax, shoes. Such usefulness is never assigned or added on afterward to a being of the type of a jug, ax, or pair of shoes."[Poetry, Language, Thought , Martin Heidegger, 2001]

09. "One would not go far wrongin setting up as an ideal the complete suppression of linear measurement and. in obliging oneself to 80 RECESSIONAL MODELLING estimate the relative shapes of volumes amongst themselves. The eye should continually caress the whole thickness of the figure ; never let yourself be tempted to see form as a thin flattened profile line. The drawing we are considering, I suppose, must be called a line drawing ; but mark howit was conceived. Never at any moment did I feel that I was drawing a flat two-dimensioned line upon the plane surface of the paper."[The art and craft of drawing, Vernon Blake, 1927]

10. " Since numbers, having no tangible reality themselves, must be wil?fully pushed into things, we have to ask how ratio can be made  sensible in architecture; the answer leads back to our point of depart?ure, the drawing. While the simplest means of expressing a ratio outside of number is  as the division of a line, the second most simple expression is as an  area, length to breadth. In this surface-making form, ratio resides in  architecture. Ratios thus expressed fill a sheet like Lord North filled a  chair: squarely."[INPUT: [AA Files 1986-sum iss. 12] Robin Evans - TRANSLATIONS FROM DRAWING TO BUILDING (1986) [10.2307_29543512] - libgen.li.pdf]