Created: 2025-11-08 12:38:33
Origin: suggested
Selected: This interaction, however, assumes different forms in different fields and in different historical periods. In the context of modern academic science, the modes of this interaction range from casual gatherings and seminars to discipleship, co-authorship, and to such relatively institutionalized forms of interaction as the publication of a special journal, the establishment of a separate scientific association (as in the various psychoanalytic schools or the Prague Linguistic Circle), or the organization of scientific meetings and conventions.[(auth.), Olga Amsterdamska *Schools of Thought: The Development of Linguistics from Bopp to Saussure*. Springer Netherlands, 1987.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Hence, the meaning-making and even text-building actions can no longer be assigned to individual but only to 'multiple authors', who, in exceptional cases, may still be identifiable as individuals but are usually unidentifiable members of collective networks. Furthermore and going one step further, in computer based semiosis, even the recipient side is involved in that the roles of author and user regularly coincide."[Gerbig, Andrea, and Oliver Mason *Language, People, Numbers: Corpus Linguistics and Society (Language and Computers : Studies in Practical Linguistics)*. Rodopi, 2008.]

02. "Inevitably this involved considerations of meaning, as well as the development by him of the formal concept of transformation. In the socially focused approaches text (whether spoken or written) is the material site where socially produced meaning emerges. Text is the means of realizing nonmaterial social meanings, in language or in other representational modes."[*Companion To Semiotics and Linguistics* Routledge, 2010.]

03. "On occasion, it may be difficult for users to find their way through the wealth of kaleidoscopic data in order to negotiate meaning and textuality. (d) Fragmentation14 is among the most noticeable features of internet sites. Every node, picture, pop-up, hyperlink etc is a fragmentary informational and thus communicative unit, and as such a challenge for the user to ascribe meaning and textuality to. Like multilinearity and multimodality, interactivity is based on the fragmentary assemblage of different text clusters."[Gerbig, Andrea, and Oliver Mason *Language, People, Numbers: Corpus Linguistics and Society (Language and Computers : Studies in Practical Linguistics)*. Rodopi, 2008.]

04. "This leads to the central question of who is doing the semiosis in these cases. If the distinctions between participant roles blur or even vanish, if users cannot be distinguished from authors and users become their own authors, how is the essentially collaborative action of creating meaning, i. e. of understanding achieved?And, as meaning is always negotiated meaning, who is negotiating with whom (on what evidence or data input)?To answer these questions, let me first explain what I mean by the two key concepts understanding and negotiating."[Gerbig, Andrea, and Oliver Mason *Language, People, Numbers: Corpus Linguistics and Society (Language and Computers : Studies in Practical Linguistics)*. Rodopi, 2008.]

05. "At the level of mode there is difference, of two kinds: one produced by the affordances of the material in which the mode is shaped, and one by the cultural/ social histories of how these affordances have been dealt with in different cultural places, how they have been shaped in the histories of different cultures (one deeply persuasive instance for me are the histories of different writing systems, say, the alphabetic versus the picto/ideographic)."[*Companion To Semiotics and Linguistics* Routledge, 2010.]

06. "In each case, the linguistic ‘feedback’ from experience is a particular one. Speakers of different languages therefore inhabit different ‘mediary worlds’ (Zwischenwelten). The linguistic worldview of a given community shapes and gives life to the entire landscape of psychological and communal behaviour. It is language which decides how different conceptual groupings and contours are to be ‘read’ and related within the whole."[INPUT: Steiner__After_Babel_Aspects_of_Language_and_Translation.pdf]

07. "This interaction, however, assumes different forms in different fields and in different historical periods. In the context of modern academic science, the modes of this interaction range from casual gatherings and seminars to discipleship, co-authorship, and to such relatively institutionalized forms of interaction as the publication of a special journal, the establishment of a separate scientific association (as in the various psychoanalytic schools or the Prague Linguistic Circle), or the organization of scientific meetings and conventions."[(auth.), Olga Amsterdamska *Schools of Thought: The Development of Linguistics from Bopp to Saussure*. Springer Netherlands, 1987.]

08. "It becomes a sort of formula, in which every reader can and must replace the variables by positive quantities of his or her choice. Based on the inclusion of the reader, one comes to an inﬁnite quantity of meanings of the text (Ponge/Sollers, 1970: 113, 114, 170). When constituting or discovering the meaning of a text, syntagmatic relations based on individual monemes as well as paradigmatic relations play a decisive role, because they ﬁnally guide the constitution of the meaning. Consequently, Ponge does not hesitate to speak about an anagrammatisation with regard to sense-constituting structures of a text (Ponge/Sollers, 1970: 71f)."[Sanders, Carol *The Cambridge Companion to Saussure*. Cambridge University Press, 2004.]

09. "Sometimes, in a way similar to treatments of discourse, text is conceptualized only as a collection of signs which displays deﬁnite rules or structures. In Halliday’s social semiotics text refers to ‘actualized meaning potential’. It ‘represents choice. A text is “what is meant”, selected from the total set of options that constitute what can be meant’ (1978, p. 109). In this version, text is a potential for meaning which suffuses collections of signs as a result of the enabling and constraining forces of situation and the general culture in which those signs appear."[*Companion To Semiotics and Linguistics* Routledge, 2010.]

10. "The spoken part (10 %) includes a large amount of unscripted informal conversation, recordeded [sic] by volunteers selected from different age, region and social classes in a demographically balanced way, together with spoken language collected in all kinds of different contexts, ranging from formal business or government meetings to radio shows and phone-ins. Corpora like the BNC try to reflect this ⫺ in a broad sense ⫺ cultural and situational diversity for good reasons. It is well known that languageexternal factors lead to actual differences in language use."[Kristiansen, Gitte, and Rene Dirven Gitte Kristiansen *Cognitive Sociolinguistics: Language Variation, Cultural Models, Social Systems (Cognitive Linguistic Research)*. Mouton de Gruyter, 2008.]

11. "What we find here is a ‘dynamic mentalism:’ language organizes experience, but that organization is constantly acted upon by the collective behaviour of the particular group of speakers. Thus there occurs a cumulative dialectic of differentiation: languages generate different social modes, different social modes further divide languages."[INPUT: Steiner__After_Babel_Aspects_of_Language_and_Translation.pdf]

12. "The gist of the present paper goes back to Geeraerts (1982, 1985: 160⫺ 165), where an initial attempt was made to compare stereotypicality and prototypicality, and more specifically to Geeraerts (1989: 163⫺173), where the necessity of an extended conception of the social dynamics of meaning, comprising the three types of social semantics that will be mentioned in paragraph 4, was first described. Prototypes, stereotypes, and semantic norms 25 2. Rigid designation, stereotypes, and the division of linguistic labor Let us first present Putnam’s conception of meaning as expounded in his highly influential paper “The meaning of meaning” (1975)."[Kristiansen, Gitte, and Rene Dirven Gitte Kristiansen *Cognitive Sociolinguistics: Language Variation, Cultural Models, Social Systems (Cognitive Linguistic Research)*. Mouton de Gruyter, 2008.]

13. "- dark, black). [2, p 141]. To quote J. Thomas, “making meaning (which is interactive) is a dynamic process involving the negotiation of meaning between the speaker and the hearer, the context o f utterance (physic al, social and linguistic) and the meaning potential of an utterance” [199, p. 22], Words, as we know, are capable of enrichi ng their semantic structure by acquiring new meamings and losing old ones. This is the subject of lexicology. Stylistics is interested in an almost unlimited potenti ality of words of acquiring new meanings, a quality which is not res tricted to grammatical or semantic acceptability [ 154, p. 63]."[Кароліна., Лотоцька *Стилістика англійської мови*. 2017.]

14. "The necessity of this historical linguistic discontinuity is most readily apparent when Pinker and Bloom try, among other things, to explain how it is that speakers converge on what they call “form–meaning pairings. ” Pinker and Bloom are aware that there are various possible rationales for any form– meaning pairing. “[A]nd that,” they write, “is precisely the problem – different rationales can impress different speakers, or the same speaker on different occasions, to different degrees. ” Having made that observation, what they do in the very next sentence is to efface those interesting differences: “But such differences in cognitive style, personal history, or momentary interests must be set aside if people are to communicate” (1990: 718), i. e. , if people are to “transmit propositional structures through a serial interface. ” For Pinker and Bloom, the setting aside of those differences was precisely the work of natural selection, the encoding of the language code on the genes, so to speak."[J.T., Andresen *Linguistics and Evolution: A Developmental Approach*. CUP, 2013.]

15. "In our diagrammatic representation of these scenarios we indicate the respective locations of source and target meanings and show the conceptual routes that link them. The source meaning, in this case, corresponds to what is traditionally called the literal meaning of the utterance. This coincidence should however not be taken to mean that literal meaning and source meaning can be used interchangeably (see section 3 below). The target meaning is specified by what we call the CORE of the speech act."[Marmaridou, Sophia S. A. *Reviewing Linguistic Thought: Converging Trends in the 21st Century*. Mouton de Gruyter, 2005.]