Created: 2025-11-02 22:03:54
Origin: suggested
Selected: Amongst tools and methods of reflective design are information technologies that are defined not only in terms of activities but also as semiotic and meaning-making technologies that open new spaces for representation and reflection. These technologies can support a design practice that consists of stepping back to gain a different perspective, looking at alternative options, and discovering the embedded values. Here information and communication technologies (ICT) are not only considered as a field that is being shaped by multiple actors, but as design tools, and somehow a metaphor for the design goal: to “denaturalize” activities and formats to be able to lay new foundations for a design project.[ The In-Discipline of Design: Bridging the Gap Between Humanities and Engineering, Annie Gentes (auth.), 2017]

--- Context List ---
01. "The following part of the chapter is devoted to positioning the paradigm of reflectivity in design with regard to the paradigm of interactivity. Both semantic fields presuppose a feedback loop between user and system, but I will argue that introducing the concept of reflective technologies helps us think about design as a critical activity that expands the design space."[ The In-Discipline of Design: Bridging the Gap Between Humanities and Engineering, Annie Gentes (auth.), 2017]

02. "The Second Chapter offers to switch from the interactive to the reflective design paradigm. The book posits that interactive design as a paradigm of design relies on a model that focuses on activities and does not question the values, the aesthetics of the artifact and therefore restricts the expansion into new norms, or new aesthetics. On the contrary, reflective design is about methods that generate new questions about functionalities, but also personal emotions, social rituals, formats, and knowledge."[ The In-Discipline of Design: Bridging the Gap Between Humanities and Engineering, Annie Gentes (auth.), 2017]

03. "419–431). Paris: Roland Retch et al. , s. d. Saper, C. J. (2001). Networked art (1st ed. ). Minneapolis: Univ Of Minnesota Press. Sass, L. , & Oxman, R. (2006, mai). Materializing design: The implications of rapid prototyping in digital design, Design Studies, 27(3), 325–355, doi:https://doi. org/10. 1016/j. destud. 2005. 11. 009 Schon, D. A. (1984) The reflective practitioner: How professionals think in action (1re éd. , p. 79). New York: Basic Books."[ The In-Discipline of Design: Bridging the Gap Between Humanities and Engineering, Annie Gentes (auth.), 2017]

04. "The fifth line gives a succinct viewpoint of the disciplines that are primarily concerned. Though a simplification of what different Fig. 2. 4 Overview interactive/reflective paradigms 40 Rheingold (2000). 42 2 From Interactive Design to Reflective Design disciplines bring into analysis and design, the framework highlights methodologies and concepts that are involved (Fig. 2. 4). 2. 5  esigning for Reflection: Two Use Cases in Distributed D Networks While the first three examples described completed artifacts and their critical standpoints, the following two examples focus on the design process and show how the plane of representation was crucial."[ The In-Discipline of Design: Bridging the Gap Between Humanities and Engineering, Annie Gentes (auth.), 2017]

05. "Amongst tools and methods of reflective design are information technologies that are defined not only in terms of activities but also as semiotic and meaning-making technologies that open new spaces for representation and reflection. These technologies can support a design practice that consists of stepping back to gain a different perspective, looking at alternative options, and discovering the embedded values. Here information and communication technologies (ICT) are not only considered as a field that is being shaped by multiple actors, but as design tools, and somehow a metaphor for the design goal: to “denaturalize” activities and formats to be able to lay new foundations for a design project."[ The In-Discipline of Design: Bridging the Gap Between Humanities and Engineering, Annie Gentes (auth.), 2017]

06. "The room stands for physical interaction space. Data-furniture is both physical objects networked with computer systems and digital artifacts linked to the physical environment. The notion of data-furniture connects experience of mnemotechnics and cognitive science for the interface. It is a spatially organized information architecture, in which data are revealed through users’ movement and action in the combined real-virtual space and interaction with other users. Data-furniture depicts digital information as visible, audible, tangible, and touchless interface objects integrated in architectural space."[Aesthetic Computing, Paul A. Fishwick, 2006]

07. "The epistemological cut between “being in the world” and “representing the world” is crucial to the understanding of what these technologies mean for human beings but also for designers. As design tools, they open a design space which is the foundation of our reflection. Reflective technologies therefore not only are based on a model of teleological action and of psychological and cultural aesthetic experience, they also open a space of representation. Using the reflective metaphor not only helps interaction designers consider information technology as new media, a specific milieu for reflection, it also helps them consider more broadly what is needed in the design process: a place, or means, to distance themselves, or even extract themselves from the obviousness of everyday use. 2. 4. 4  eflective Technologies as a Metaphor for the Design R Process To elaborate from the interactive metaphor to get to the reflective metaphor means that we change the agenda from engineering to political."[ The In-Discipline of Design: Bridging the Gap Between Humanities and Engineering, Annie Gentes (auth.), 2017]

08. "There is, therefore, a double need to understand the properties of these reflective artifacts: first to understand these technologies to better design them, second to understand how they offer a design space with tools and metaphors to think about design and conception properly. More generally speaking, media offer an autonomous and reflexive material that help designers invent new aesthetics. In the Third Chapter, I contrast the sociology of use and the engineering research perspectives on the “user”."[ The In-Discipline of Design: Bridging the Gap Between Humanities and Engineering, Annie Gentes (auth.), 2017]

09. "We must emphasize that transparency is not a bad aesthetic or design strategy. Problems arise only when transparency is regarded as the exclusive goal of interface design, because in such cases the design may ignore the need for the user to be critically aware of the interface itself. Digital art promotes such critical awareness, as do a range of new design strategies in MR. We conclude by returning to the two approaches to aesthetic computing: what we called the code view and the interface view."[Aesthetic Computing, Paul A. Fishwick, 2006]

10. "The challenge for design is how to deal with these impressions, and materialize them into design proposals. While impressions and potentiality are fundamental to the design sensibility, “Secondness” defined by Peirce, that is the actual elements of a situation including humans and non-humans, is what designers have to work with. The composition of the new artifact is one of the stages where design ingredients are tested up against each other. To design and to observe design is to use methods that capture these dynamic tensions and consider the agency of the elements of conception."[ The In-Discipline of Design: Bridging the Gap Between Humanities and Engineering, Annie Gentes (auth.), 2017]