Created: 2025-11-12 14:38:14
Origin: searched
Selected: The three activities are strictly simultaneous and have only incommensurable relationships. The creation of concepts has no other limit than the plane · they happen to populate; but the plane itself is limitless, and its layout only conforms to the concepts to be created that it must connect up, or to the personae to be invented that it must maintain. It is as in painting: there is a taste according to which even monsters and dwarves must be well made, which does not mean insipid but that their irregular contours are in keeping with a skin texture or with a background of the earth as germinal substance with which they seem to fit.[Deleuze, Gilles, Felix Guattari, Hugh Tomlinson, and Graham Burchell *What Is Philosophy?*. Columbia University Press, 1996.]

--- Context List ---
01. "The three activities are strictly simultaneous and have only incommensurable relationships. The creation of concepts has no other limit than the plane · they happen to populate; but the plane itself is limitless, and its layout only conforms to the concepts to be created that it must connect up, or to the personae to be invented that it must maintain. It is as in painting: there is a taste according to which even monsters and dwarves must be well made, which does not mean insipid but that their irregular contours are in keeping with a skin texture or with a background of the earth as germinal substance with which they seem to fit."[Deleuze, Gilles, Felix Guattari, Hugh Tomlinson, and Graham Burchell *What Is Philosophy?*. Columbia University Press, 1996.]

02. "A stone or piece of metal raised into the air, and left without any support, immediately falls: but to consider the matter a priori, is there anything we discover in this situation which can beget the idea of a downward, rather than an upward, or any other motion, in the stone or metal?And as the first imagination or invention of a particular effect, in all natural operations, is arbitrary, where we consult not experience; so must we also esteem the supposed tie or connexion between the cause and effect, which binds them together, and renders it impossible that any other effect could result from the operation of that cause."[Baird, Forrest E. *Philosophic Classics: From Plato to Derrida*. 6th ed. Routledge, 2016.]

03. "Indeed, as we have seen from 6. 9 [9]. 3. 1-6, Form is not for itself form, but only for us. Thus also the One is not an intelligible object in itself, but only for another 7* viz. Intellect. We have seen that the human soul may return to the One, her creator, in entering upon that silence and abiding that precedes the creation and must, if it is to be enjoyed, be seen without reference to the creation."[Schroeder, Frederic M. *Form and Transformation: A Study in the Philosophy of Plotinus (McGill-Queen's Studies in the History of Ideas)*. McGill-Queen's University Press, 1992.]

04. "Therefore, vice versa, this idea of a triangle can neither be nor be conceived without this affirmation, and so (Def. 2, II) this affirmation belongs to the essence of the idea of a triangle, and is nothing more than the essence itself. And what I have said of this volition (for it was arbitrarily selected) must also be said of every volition, namely, that it is nothing but an idea. Corollary: Will and intellect are one and the same thing. Proof: Will and intellect are nothing but the particular volitions and ideas (Pr."[Baird, Forrest E. *Philosophic Classics: From Plato to Derrida*. 6th ed. Routledge, 2016.]

05. ""- LAMiI. i'RroN; PapuW. 1· ·istr'Ono;;;-:--- -"···~··~· I need Rcarcely say that these considerations about form and colour are in no sense meant to apply to artistic realism. It is obvious that art must accept the finality of both form and cjkur. The facts are only stated to form arguments against the s]. 4iritual and mental realisms of the world-arguments borrowed from the natural world of 1>henomena, often spoken of as real. I . / . '. • THE ILLUSION OF REALISM I 3I t,. esmal a!ld delusive world."[Harrison, Clifford *Notes on The Margins: Being Suggestions of Thought and Enquiry*. George Redway, London, 1897.]

06. "(The Space‐Time Continuum?)All this is evidently without form and void; these are abstract conditions, not positive ideas. The next step must be the idea of Position. One must formulate this thesis: If there is anything except Nothing, it must exist within this Boundless Light; within this Space; within this inconceivable Nothingness, which cannot exist as Nothingness, but has to be conceived of as a Nothingness composed of the annihilation of two imaginary opposites."[Crowley, Aleister, and Frieda Harris *The Book of Thoth (Egyptian Tarot)*. Paperback. Samuel Weiser, Inc., 1981.]

07. "But since it is in its own self absolute negativity or form, its reflection-into-velf b a negatioe relation to itselJ. It contains opposition and repels itself within itself into the essential world and into the world of othemess or the world of Appearance. Thus, because it is totality, it is also oriy one side of. it, and in this determination constitutes a self-subsistmce distinct from the world of Appearance. The world of Appearance has in the essential world its negative unity in which it falls to the ground and into which it withdraws as into its ground."[Kierkegaard, Soren *The Seducer's Diary*. 1997.]

08. "But the intellectual principle has per se existence and is subsistent, as was said above (Q. LXXV. , A. 2). Therefore it is not united to the body as its form. Obj. 6. Further, whatever exists in a thing by reason of its nature exists in it always. But to be united to matter belongs to the form by reason of its nature; because form is the act of matter, not by any accidental quality, but by its own essence; otherwise matter and form would not make a thing substantially one, but only accidentally one. Therefore, a form cannot be without its own proper matter."[Hakim, Albert *Historical introduction to philosophy*. 5th ed. London, New York: Routledge, 2016.]

09. "Parmenides takes it to refer unambiguously to the symmetrical relation of similarity. Thus he asks: if the particular is like the Form, is not the Form also like the particular?Now the Form as pattern was posited in the first instance to explain the similarity among particulars. If the same relationship exists between the particular and the Form, then surely we must posit yet a further Form to account for the similarity between the Form and the particular. Of course, this process may be extended to infinite regress."[Schroeder, Frederic M. *Form and Transformation: A Study in the Philosophy of Plotinus (McGill-Queen's Studies in the History of Ideas)*. McGill-Queen's University Press, 1992.]

10. "The visible essence of the form of a horse as such is a divine invention. This essence is the root of the special formal principle that must be realized, and it determines which proportions must be present. The more this special formal principle is realized in one individual horse, the more beautiful that animal is. It is interesting that one and the same form appears inappropriate in one instance and perfectly fitting in another, depending on the structure intended by the specific nature of one particular form, which displays innumerable variations."[von Hildebrand, Dietrich *Aesthetics*. Hildebrand Project, 2016.]

11. "a harmony of parts propriety and fitness, a series of connections & dependencies, which being contemplated excite the Sense of Beauty, but it must not manifest in itself any precise & definite purpose — it must have no object out of itself. Every definite purpose limits & chains the aesthetical feeling which must be free. N. B. This Result, which I have stated very loosely (in Kant it is left very obscure) has also led to many favourite doctrines of the modern Critics."[Huehn, Helmut *Symbol and Intuition: Comparative Studies in Kantian and Romantic-period Aesthetics*. Routledge, 2013.]

12. "• • • • • Charity and duty to ones neighbour are as caravanserais established by wise rulers of old; you may stop there one night, but not for long, or you will incur reproach. • • • • • Both small and great things must equally possess form. The mind cannot picture to itself a thing without form, nor conceive a form of unlimited dimensions. The greatness of anything may be a topic of discussion, or the smallness of anything may be mentally realised."[Tzu, Zhuangzi *Teachings and sayings of Chuang Tzŭ.*. Mineola, N.Y: Dover Publications, 2001.]

13. "The process of symbolic representation involves a ‘double function’. That is, Kant says, reflective judgment first must find the aesthetic idea (the concept of a sensible object that will serve as the rule or guide for reflection) and second, it must transfer the rule for reflecting upon that manifold sensible intuition to reflection upon the rational idea. The resulting ref lection does not of course, determine the rational idea, bringing the object of that idea into existence, but it does represent it in sensibility in a variety of new ways."[Huehn, Helmut *Symbol and Intuition: Comparative Studies in Kantian and Romantic-period Aesthetics*. Routledge, 2013.]

14. "This first law has been verified insofar as it applies to the individual, for the power of the imagination is now an established fact. The data of hypnosis and what are called “psychosomatic” phenomena are there to bear witness, and likewise all that suggestion and autosuggestion can do in ordinary life. In order for this law to reach maximum efficacy, to the point of acting on bodily functions and organs that usually evade voluntary control and command, two conditions are necessary: One must form a single idea, saturated with emotion—i. e. , the mind must be occupied with the image alone, and not impassively: it must be united to an emotional charge, a vehement desire, a high degree of vibration."[Evola, Julius *Introduction to Magic II*. Paperback. Inner Traditions, 2019.]

15. "own so, I distinct office, own power; and its what perceive soft is distinct faculty, therefore we must and cold or hot by one by another perceive the ferent colours of things which its and thus dif- see all objects are conjoined with colour. Taste too from one from another. It must follow therefore that any one sense cannot confute any other. No nor can any sense take itself to task, since equal credit must be assigned to it at all times. What therefore has at any time has faculty apart; smells spring its source, sounds appeared true to each sense, is true."[Hutchins, Robert Maynard (ed.) *Great books of the Western world, vol. 12*. Chicago: Encyclopaedia Britannica, 1952.]