Created: 2025-12-18 22:38:17
Origin: searched
Selected: Such structure yields complexity beyond that typically shown in co-speech gestures or the binding of text with individual images (Cohn, 2013a). This work seeks to characterize such complex multimodal interactions by expanding on Jackendoff’s (2002) parallel architecture for language. Here, focus will be placed on how grammar and meaning coalesce in multimodal interactions, extending beyond the semantic taxonomies typically discussed about text–image relations (e. g. , Kress, 2009; Martinec & Salway, 2005; McCloud, 1993; Royce, 2007).[INPUT: Cohn - 2016 - A multimodal parallel architecture A cognitive framework for multimodal interactions.pdf]

--- Context List ---
01. "Such structure yields complexity beyond that typically shown in co-speech gestures or the binding of text with individual images (Cohn, 2013a). This work seeks to characterize such complex multimodal interactions by expanding on Jackendoff’s (2002) parallel architecture for language. Here, focus will be placed on how grammar and meaning coalesce in multimodal interactions, extending beyond the semantic taxonomies typically discussed about text–image relations (e. g. , Kress, 2009; Martinec & Salway, 2005; McCloud, 1993; Royce, 2007)."[INPUT: Cohn - 2016 - A multimodal parallel architecture A cognitive framework for multimodal interactions.pdf]

02. "Just as empirical work has borne out the separation of syntax and semantics in sentences (e. g. , Marslen-Wilson & Tyler, 1980; Osterhout & Nicol, 1999; Van Petten & Kutas, 1991), experimentation has supported a separation of structure (narrative) and meaning (semantics) for visual narrative sequences (Cohn, Paczynski, et al. , 2012). This functional viewpoint of ‘‘packaging information” is important, since it also characterizes the challenge of multimodal interactions: how do we understand (and produce) meaningful expressions expressed in text, images, or both?"[INPUT: Cohn - 2016 - A multimodal parallel architecture A cognitive framework for multimodal interactions.pdf]

03. "Baetens, J. (2011). Abstraction in comics. SubStance, 40(1), 94–113. Bateman, J. A. (2014). Text and image: A critical introduction to the visual/verbal divide. New York: Routledge. Bateman, J. A. , & Schmidt, K. -H. (2012). Multimodal film analysis: How films mean. New York: Routledge. Bateman, J. A. , & Wildfeuer, J. (2014). A multimodal discourse theory of visual narrative. Journal of Pragmatics, 74, 180–208. http://dx. doi. org/10. 1016/j. pragma. 2014. 10. 001. Bordwell, D. , & Thompson, K. (1997). Film art: An introduction (5th ed. )."[INPUT: Cohn - 2016 - A multimodal parallel architecture A cognitive framework for multimodal interactions.pdf]

04. "In the desired framework, visual intelligent systems should be able to reconstruct a “story” from basic information, blending relevant visual data with common-sense knowledge into a unifying conceptual pattern. Adopting an architectural perspective, implementing this capability would require three different strata of information elaboration: basic optical features (low-level), object detection (mid-level) and event classification (high-level). In this contribution we focus on high-level mechanisms and contents, namely the core visual intelligence as opposed to state-of-the-art machine vision."[Oltramari, Alessandro, Piek Vossen, Lu Qin (auth.), Alessandro Oltramari, Piek Vossen, Lu Qin, and Eduard Hovy (eds.) *New Trends of Research in Ontologies and Lexical Resources: Ideas, Projects, Systems*. Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg, 2013.]

05. "Detailed mechanisms were proposed for the encoding of documentation on texts (bibliographic information, information on editorial principles, etc. )and for a wide range of textual features (characters, textual units, editorial changes, etc. ), catering for many different types of texts (prose, verse, spoken texts, dictionaries, etc. ). The coding was formulated with reference to a consistent syntax, using the Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML). Although this was only the first step in a continuing effort, it set a new standard for text encoding."[Ludeling, Anke, and Merja Kyto *Corpus Linguistics: An International Handbook, Volume 1 (Handbooks of Linguistics and Communication Science)*. 2009.]

06. "Indeed, in this latter context it should be noted that Biber and Finegan have applied Biber s multidimensional model to the building of their ARCHER historical corpus. Text typology is in fact a cross-over area between stylistics and text linguistics - that discipline which is concerned with the structure of texts above the level of the sentence. It is thus worth noting briefly some of the other text- linguistic work that has been done with corpora."[McEnery, Tony, and Andrew Wilson *Corpus linguistics : an introduction*. 2nd ed. Edinburgh: Edinburgh U., 2001.]

07. "2012). These studies have opened up new possibilities for incorporating eye-tracking methodology into the study of visual discourse, but have not scrutinized the ways in which meaning is weaved and organized inside manga panels. 2 Entering the third phase of eye-movement study (Rayner 1978, 1998), researchers have gradually turned their foci of research from traditional text to 243 244 Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics multisemiotic reading materials which accommodate diversiﬁed visual targets such as written texts, images, and real-world scenes (see Henderson 1992, 2003; Henderson and Hollingworth 1998; Henderson et al."[Webster, Jonathan J., and Xuanwei Peng (eds.) *Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics: The State of the Art in China Today*. Bloomsbury Academic, 2017.]

08. "The topic of the main Section 2 is a discussion of ontological and methodological aspects of contrastive information structure analysis. Section 2 also contains some relativising remarks on the ideal methodological requirements on contrastive information structure analysis as discussed before. The point here is that keeping this ideal in mind and explaining in how far a prospective instance of contrastive information structure analysis matches it is more fruitful than not undertaking the analysis in the first place just because it may be impossible to heed the ideal completely."[Breul, Carsten, and Edward Göbbel *Comparative and Contrastive Studies of Information Structure*. John Benjamins Publishing Company, 2010.]

09. "3 JNote Note that the likes of Beghelli, Ben-Shalom & & Szabolcsi (1997), Reinhart (1997), Szabolcsi (1997b) already of scope. Meanwhile, Erteschik-Shir Erteschik-Shir (1997) proposes to derive scope point towards a more heterogeneous notion of information-structural status of different different expressions. While my general approach is not readings directly from the information-structural of information information structure, there are clearly important questions to be asked about why compatible with her analysis of information-structural interpretation and scope readings seem so closely related and to what extent one might reduce information-structural to the other."[Wedgwood, Daniel *Particulate Colloids*. Elsevier Science, 2005.]

10. "in ‘context-changing’ ones. Section 8 concludes with a brief summary and some general remarks on methodological problems of contrastive information structure analysis. 2. â•… Terminological remarks on information structural categories The notorious difficulties of defining information structural notions such as ‘contrast’, ‘focus’ and ‘topic’ have been mentioned already. With respect to the notion of ‘topic’, Jacobs (2001) has shown that at least part of the problem originates from the fact that this notion is not a monolithic concept but comprises a number of information structural properties associated with the relevant constituents."[Breul, Carsten, and Edward Göbbel *Comparative and Contrastive Studies of Information Structure*. John Benjamins Publishing Company, 2010.]

11. "One formalisation of these broad ideas may be found in Vallduvf's Vallduvi's (1992) 'information 'information packaging' analysis, which uses File Change Semantics to model manipulations of a mental database (see also the closely related proposals of Erteschik-Shir 1997). Information-structural Information-structural primitives like focus are given procedural semantics, in terms of operations to be performed performed on this mental database. Thus, a topic (or 'Link', in Vallduvf's Vallduvi's terminology) opens up an entry in the database, while a focused expression writes some information information under the appropriate heading."[Wedgwood, Daniel *Particulate Colloids*. Elsevier Science, 2005.]

12. "This constitutes the specific comparative-contrastive perspective taken in this volume, a perspective discussed from a methodological point of view in the concluding article. The book is motivated by its editors’ and contributors’ conviction that comparative and contrastive research on information structure is beneficial in two respects: First, it advances our knowledge of and insights into both language specific and universal aspects of information structure; second, it raises significant questions as to the formal representation and the functional properties of information structural categories as well as its location in the architecture of grammar, i. e."[Breul, Carsten, and Edward Göbbel *Comparative and Contrastive Studies of Information Structure*. John Benjamins Publishing Company, 2010.]

13. "Bateson, Mary Catherine. 1967. Arabic Language Handbook. Washington, DC: Center for Applied Linguistics. Bauman, Richard. 1977. Verbal Art as Performance. Rowley, MA: Newbury House. Becker, A. L. 1979a. "The Figure a Sentence Makes: An Interpretation of a Classical Malay Sentence. "Discourse Semantics, Volume 12), ed. by Talmy and Syntax (Syntax and Givon, 243-259. New York: Academic Press. Becker, A. L. 1979b. "Text-building, Epistemology Javanese Shadow Theater. "Southeast Asian The Imagination Coherence Systems, and Aesthetics in of Reality: Essays in ed."[Johnstone, Barbara *Repetition in Arabic Discourse: Paradigms, Syntagms and the Ecology of Language*. John Benjamins, 1991.]

14. "New York: ACM Press, 568⫺576. Kumar, R. /Novak, J. /Raghavan, P. /Tomkins, A. (2004), Structure and Evolution of Blogspace. Communications of the ACM 47(12), 35⫺39. Kuperman, V (2005), Productivity in the Internet Mailing Lists: A Bibliometric Analysis. In: Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology 57(1), 51⫺59. Landauer, T. K. /Dumais, S. T. (1997), A Solution to Plato’s Problem: The Latent Semantic Analysis Theory of Acquisition, Induction, and Representation of Knowledge. In: Psychological Review 104(2), 211⫺240."[Ludeling, Anke, and Merja Kyto *Corpus Linguistics: An International Handbook, Volume 1 (Handbooks of Linguistics and Communication Science)*. 2009.]

15. "In this volume, Chapter 4 by Giora Text representation as an interface between language and its users and Balaban, is another example of such a study on methaphor. 3· Two constituting principles of text: referential and relational coherence Now that we have discussed general properties and tendencies in research on text representation, an obvious question emerges: What are the exact characteristics of the text, the object of representation?We discuss the ones we believe to be most important, i. e. those that determine a set of sentences to be a text rather than a loose set of sentences."[Sanders, Ted, Joost Schilperoord, and Wilbert Spooren *Text representation: linguistic and psycholinguistic aspects*. John Benjamins Publishing Company, 2001.]