Created: 2025-12-27 00:14:03
Origin: searched
Selected: Where structure is not exposed but concealed, perhaps hidden within wall cavities, screened by suspended ceilings or undifferentiated from partition walling, it possesses very limited opportunities to enrich architecture. In these situations, where the architecture must rely on other devices and elements for its qualities, any skeletal, wall-like or expressive structural qualities remain latent – structure cannot be read.[Charleson, Andrew *Structure As Architecture: A Source Book For Architects And Structural Engineers*. Architectural Press, 2005.]

--- Context List ---
01. "wall 2001 As thin as possible: fantasy of the  two-dimensional wall, sketched in 3D by  SANAA for the Kunstlinie Almere,  Netherlands. PAGE 3 WALL The meaning of the wall is just as diverse as the uses of vertical surface can be, but there are at least two essential  functions: providing structure and dividing space. The two can be separated, and thus the category of 'wall' divides into  two: the bearing wall, separating roof from ground; and the partition wall, organizing movement within the resulting  container. The former, it would seem, is as stable as the human need for shelter; the latter as changeable as our forms  of sociability. "[INPUT: wall.pdf]

02. "II) WALLS A) Function 1. Barrier Wall 2. Terrace Wall 3· "House" Wall B) Structure I. Stone: Megalithic, Rubble, Ashlar, Ashlar framed rubble SHECHEM cobble stiffening wood reinforcing unclear functional analysis jERICHO 392 CONSTRUCTION 2. Mudbrick: Bonding, reinforcing, combination with stone 3· Wood: Reinforcing,framing, cladding C) Aspect I. Vertical Articulation: foot, socle, face, crowning 2."[Wright, G.R.H. *Ancient Building in South Syria and Palestine*. Leiden: Brill, 1985.]

03. "Functional Analysis of the ‘Wavy’ Enclosure Wall."[Wright, G.R.H. *Ancient Building Technology, Volume 3: Construction (2 vols.)*. Brill, 2009.]

04. "Where structure is not exposed but concealed, perhaps hidden within wall cavities, screened by suspended ceilings or undifferentiated from partition walling, it possesses very limited opportunities to enrich architecture. In these situations, where the architecture must rely on other devices and elements for its qualities, any skeletal, wall-like or expressive structural qualities remain latent – structure cannot be read."[Charleson, Andrew *Structure As Architecture: A Source Book For Architects And Structural Engineers*. Architectural Press, 2005.]

05. "The next two examples of spatial structure lack any sense of the structural drama observed in the two previous examples, but illustrate how structure in a state-of-repose plays important spatial ordering roles. ▲ 6. 26 The timber roof is propped off an outer frame. Having discussed previously the rounded and protective exterior wall structure of Fitzwilliam College Chapel, Cambridge (see Fig."[Charleson, Andrew *Structure As Architecture: A Source Book For Architects And Structural Engineers*. Architectural Press, 2005.]

06. "PAGE 20 WOVEN WALL The ur-wall is not, according to  19th century architectural theorist  Gottfried Semper, a mud or stone  line of enormous and reassuring  heft, but an artful, woven partition.  Hanging loosely, perhaps flapping,  the woven screen generates-   and, crucially, symbolizes -   the division and organization of  activities within the primitive dwelling. The woven "wall" is an enabler  of civilization; the thick structural  wall merely a defender of it. "[INPUT: wall.pdf]

07. "Practically, however, the two modes of action are always in some sort united. Again, the weight to be borne may either act generally on the whole wall surface, or with excessive energy on particular points: when it acts on the whole wall surface, the whole wall is generally supported; and the arrangement becomes a continuous rampart, as a dyke, or bank of reservoir."[Ruskin, John *The Stones of Venice: The foundations*. Smith, Elder, and co., 2013.]

08. "In place of this a bonding transverse “wall” (itself of two faces and a core) can be built across the structure—obviously such a device is more proper to “engineering” structures, where special strength and stability is required (e. g. dams). It should be noticed also that this transverse bonding not only ties the wall together, but it also compartmentalises the core and thus reduces its outward pressure on the wall face (ABADY IV 1987 pp."[Wright, G.R.H. *Ancient Building Technology, Volume 3: Construction (2 vols.)*. Brill, 2009.]

09. "Yet, wall C integrates the remains of a remarkable, obviously even earlier structure (Wall C1), most of which had already been destroyed or dismantled when the construction of wall C was started. Here, we get a glimpse of the concepts of a medieval “building in the historical context”. 3. 2 Definition of structural criteria for masonry of wall C1 The question of when Wall C1 could have been built cannot be answered in Baku itself, since no directly comparable constructions or construction techniques have been discovered here so far."[Le Brun, Nicolas *Building knowledge, construction history. 2 vols. Proceedings of the 6th International Congress on Construction History (6ICCH 2018), July 9-13, 2018, Brussels, Belgium*. London: CRC Press (U.K.), 2018.]

10. "Then he appears to him and says: “Remove your roof!”; If two [men who share a wall] have support beams ( judhE“) [inserted in it], and one of them produces legal proof that the wall belongs to him, the other man’s beams are removed; 73 SPACE AND MUSLIM URBAN LIFE If a man buys a house, under which is a cellar and drainage well from an adjacent house; On the wall between the two houses of two men, neither man having used it for load-bearing purposes, and one of them wants to bear upon it one or two wooden beams; If a man buys a wall and no mention is made of its land, the sale occurs on the wall (binA”) without the land. 3 Then it is said to the purchaser: “Remove your wall!”; If a man buys half a wall; If a man establishes a wall [next] to another, and does no more than that, the wall belongs to the place by its land; If a woman divorces her husband over a wall [using the wall as ransom], and no mention is made of its land, the sale occurs on the wall (binA”) without the land; If the bottom of a wall belongs to one man and the top of it to another; On the house between two men that collapses; If there is a door in the wall belonging to one person, that leads to the house of another person, and the ﬁrst person claims that the right of passage belongs to him, but the other denies it; On the collapsed wall: if one of two owners wants to rebuild it but the other refuses, can the latter be forced to rebuild it?4 D) Ibn al-R!m@ (d. after 1333), Kit1b al-I0l1n bi-a6k1m al-buny1n: The dispute (kalAm) regarding the wall between two houses of two men; The dispute regarding the wall owned by one man that provides a screen against another man, and either it collapses or the owner wants to raze it completely."[O'Meara, Simon *Space and Muslim Urban Life: At the Limits of the Labyrinth of Fez (Culture and Civilization in the Middle East)*. 2007.]

11. "It should be noted that from limited excavations it is not necessarily clear whether the primary purpose of~ heavy wall at the crest of a slope is a defensive city wall or a retaining wall, a terrace wall (cf. Neolithic jericho v. Duj; pp. 66-67. EB Megiddo v. TA rg77, pp. 79 ff. ). In fact very often a wall must have served both 76, 78 URBAN FOR TIFICA TIONS-W ALLS 86 purposes-acting as a retaining wall in its lower parts and as a defensive wall above (cf."[Wright, G.R.H. *Ancient Building in South Syria and Palestine*. Leiden: Brill, 1985.]

12. "[ . . . ]The master mason Musammad [Ibn al-Ramc] said regarding the second permutation (UEra) of the ﬁrst [category]: This is a wall between two men, both of whom claim it, neither having an identifying bond (“aqd ) within it. 19 [He] said: If two men both claim a wall between them and neither has an identifying bond within it, the case is decided by way of the appurtenances (marAf Cq) of the wall."[O'Meara, Simon *Space and Muslim Urban Life: At the Limits of the Labyrinth of Fez (Culture and Civilization in the Middle East)*. 2007.]

13. "The upper had loogholes, but there weriPno merlons on the walls* wall-walk (boevoy ran behind^ parapet supplied with loopholes. The up^e^partioof the wall ~* uiltsslightly projecting beyond the plafte o£ljie wall, so that there was a between the uppej and lower partsaof the wall. The clearance served the "e purpose as hoarding or machicolations in European castles: t% command "space at the foot of the wall."[Nossov, Konstantin, and Peter Dennis *Medieval Russian Fortresses AD 862-1480*. Osprey Publishing, 2007.]

14. "6, 7), although in this case the outer wall was not constructed as a separate entity but was built in units as the outer wall of a given house. By contrast, the Stratum-X casemate wall at Hazor, with doorways in the corner of almost every room, opened onto a street (Yadin et al. 1989: Plan VIII).    Figure 5. 22. Drain Channel 218, south side, with Doorway K (Stratum VIIIB) and Doorway A Stratum VIIIA, into Room 210. in Building 113."[Daviau, P. M. Michele, Paul-Eugene Dion, Ronald G. V. Hancock, David Hemsworth, Margaret A. Judd, Ryan Defonzo, and Douglas W. Schnurrenberger *Excavations at Tall Jawa, Jordan, Volume 1: The Iron Age Town*. Brill Academic Publishers, 2003.]

15. "The western half of Wall C contains a ca. 16 m long fragment of a very specific wall structure (Wall C1, see Fig. 2), preserved in up to two stone courses of its regular masonry. This Wall C1 and its material and constructional characteristics will be the focus of the following considerations. Some portions of surface have been seriously affected by consolidation interventions, especially those of the 1960s."[Le Brun, Nicolas *Building knowledge, construction history. 2 vols. Proceedings of the 6th International Congress on Construction History (6ICCH 2018), July 9-13, 2018, Brussels, Belgium*. London: CRC Press (U.K.), 2018.]

16. "interior wall Any wall within a building; entirely surrounded by exterior walls. load-bearing wall A wall capable of supporting an imposed load in addition to its own weight. masonry wall A load-bearing or non-load-bearing wall consisting of hollow masonry units. non-load-bearing wall A wall subject only to its own weigh and wind pressure. partition An interior wall dividing a room or part of a building into separate areas; may be either non-load-bearing or load-bearing."[Ernest., Burden *Illustrated Dictionary of Architecture*. 2017.]

17. "balloon frame wall A system of framing a wooden building wherein the exterior bearing walls and partitions consists of single studs that extend the full height of the frame from the top of the soleplate to the roof plate. bearing wall Supports any vertical load in addition to its own weight. cant wall A wall canted in elevation from true vertical. cantilever retaining wall A wall retaining soil that acts as a cantilevered beam as opposed to one acting as a continuous beam spanning between supports."[Ernest., Burden *Illustrated Dictionary of Architecture*. 2017.]

18. "1994:150, fig. 3). In Building 700 at Tall Jawa, a stone pier wall supports one end of a lintel over a doorway between Rooms 712 and R713 (see below). This same construction technique was used at Busayra, where a “pier” wall (90) bonds with the outer wall, and serves as a cross wall between two rooms (Bienkowki 2001: fig. 3; 2002: fig. 4. 5). While this technique is also used in casemate wall systems, what is of interest here is its use in domestic structures."[Daviau, P. M. Michele, Paul-Eugene Dion, Ronald G. V. Hancock, David Hemsworth, Margaret A. Judd, Ryan Defonzo, and Douglas W. Schnurrenberger *Excavations at Tall Jawa, Jordan, Volume 1: The Iron Age Town*. Brill Academic Publishers, 2003.]

19. "The gradients occur across the wall between the insulation dry by allowing moisture to evap- building consists of a black base of integrally two zones. Adequate wall cavity airflow and orate. Mechanical shades located in this colored concrete supporting a monolithic drainage are not provided and the interior of cavity in front of any windows further reduce block enveloped by opaque, transparent, the wall is inaccessible."[Killory, Christine *Details in Contemporary Architecture*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2007.]

20. "To the interior, smooth wall inside-surfaces create pure interior space, while to the city, smooth wall outside-surfaces definite clear open spaces. So the designer abandoned all decoration on both sides of wall, try to create the atmosphere of pure spaces, in order to highlight the art works at the same time."[Yu, Jasmine *Museum Display Design*. Design Media Publishing Limited, 2012.]

21. "Cavity walls. This type of construction is now very common and is generally preferred to solid wall construction for many types of buildings, especially houses. A cavity wall is usually an external wall. It consists of two separate walls of brickwall, having a cavity between, and connected together by metal ties. 62 Notes: bar стержень cavity wall bond retaining wall подпорная стенка сцепление longitudinal продольный пустотелая (полая) стена shear stress срезывающее напряжение tensile растягивающий tie wire проволока weave - wove – woven плеcти 63 элемент, работающий на растяжение expanded metal просечно-вытяжной металлический лист 64 C. 3."[Г.И., Железнякова *Civil Engineering Часть 1*. 2017.]

22. "3. Translate the following word combinations: interior finish, interior wall, sufficient weight, additional services, mill building, exterior wall, covering material, storey-height wall panel, strength of materials, strength test, divide into classes, bearing wall construction, consist of elements, dwelling house, mere enclosure, protect the building, strength of the construction, protect the foundation B."[Г.И., Железнякова *Civil Engineering Часть 1*. 2017.]

23. "[16, 17] This wall is the line of support where many of the transfer beams mentioned above terminate and ﬁnd bearing surface. The wall is approximately 7. 5 meters long. At the bottom portion of this wall is a bookcase, a low horizontal wood unit measuring approximately 1. 12 meters high by 5 meters in length, sheathed with sliding glass doors. [18] The bookcase is not on the wall, but recessed so that it consumes virtually the entire depth of the wall, the front face of the woodwork set perfectly ﬂush with the wall’s plaster ﬁnish."[Kleinman, Kent, and Leslie Van Duzer *Mies van der Rohe's Krefeld Villas*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2005.]

24. "• At the fa£ade of one building, there was a veneer-clad wing wall above a fourth floor terrace area. This wall was topped with coping stones, with the top of the wall angled downward toward the exterior. There was a concrete beam running along the top of the wall (below the coping and veneer). A coping stone was removed from this wall to observe the anchorage of the coping and the condition at the wall cavity."[(Editors), Paul A. Bosela 7 Norbert J. Delatte *Forensic engineering : proceedings of the 4th congress, October 6-9, 2006, Cleveland, Ohio*. Cleveland, Ohio), Reston, Va: American Society of Civil Engineers, 2007.]

25. "This research tries to obtain a reliable evaluation from an experimental programme on masonry wall components and wall system. The structural behaviour of the stone masonry wall depends very much on the mechanical characteristics of its components, namely the stone and the mortar. Furthermore, the structure of the wall such as single leaf, double-leaf of cavity wall with rubble infill significantly affects its load capacity and failure mode."[(ed.), S. Syngellakis *Heritage Masonry: Materials and Structures*. WIT Press, 2013.]