Created: 2025-12-28 00:38:09
Origin: searched
Selected: Skin metaphors are ubiquitous in contemporary art and architectural theory. Not only are “skins” of artworks and buildings frequently referred to, but the metaphors and mechanics of skin as the body’s surface are applied to artworks—the skin’s self-regulation, its ability to adapt to changing environments, its permeable surface, as well as skin’s organic nature. Artists and architects are drawing upon a long history of examining the relationship of, and distinctions between, façade and building, surface and depth.[Flanagan, Mary, and Austin Booth *Re:skin*. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press, 2006.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Skin metaphors are ubiquitous in contemporary art and architectural theory. Not only are “skins” of artworks and buildings frequently referred to, but the metaphors and mechanics of skin as the body’s surface are applied to artworks—the skin’s self-regulation, its ability to adapt to changing environments, its permeable surface, as well as skin’s organic nature. Artists and architects are drawing upon a long history of examining the relationship of, and distinctions between, façade and building, surface and depth."[Flanagan, Mary, and Austin Booth *Re:skin*. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press, 2006.]

02. "In particular, it allows skin to be understood as a form of clothing, and clothing as a form of skin. In other words, skin can be understood as a canvas to be dressed up (as in ornamentation practices such 78 The Metaphor of Nudity as tattooing), and clothing can be understood as a second skin. Skin is thus a crucial border site in the shifting relation between nudity and clothing – a bodily site with great cultural, psychological and phenomenological import. Its cultural functions include acting as a marker of racial identity, regulating the opposition between the “inside” and “outside” of the body and, metaphorically, acting like a kind of shell or clothing, holding the body in place."[Barcan, Ruth *Nudity: A Cultural Anatomy*. Berg Publishers, 2004.]

03. "The racial fetish, metonymized as animal or Papuan skin in Loos’s work, provides the pivot on which Modernist aesthetic values turn: essence versus veneer, plainness versus excess, utility versus waste, taste versus vulgarity. Yet, as we have started to see, the pivot—that haunting skin—is itself already contaminated. Modern architecture may in fact be quite naked, though not in the senses of purity or transparency as is traditionally claimed, but rather in the very material sense of embodying a profound nostalgia for, if not a downright imitation of, the lost, originary, naked skin."[Cheng, Anne Anlin *Second Skin: Josephine Baker & the Modern Surface*. Oxford University Press, 2011.]

04. "For Dagognet, the skin obtains an incomparable importance over any other body part: in the skin, the relation between outside and inside exists intensely. 9 In a later book, La peau découverte, Dagognet characterizes the interdependency of the skin’s “outside-inside” (dehors-dedans) and “inside-outside” (dedans-dehors) relationship as most relevant to the explanation of certain dermatological disorders such as acne, eczema, hives, and other skin diseases (1993)."[Flanagan, Mary, and Austin Booth *Re:skin*. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press, 2006.]

05. "So what can the surface be or do if it is not just a cover?This question impacts not only Modernist, formalist experimentations but also how the modern history of racialized skin gets seen, read, and written. For we cannot address the history of modern surfaces without also asking after the other history of skin, the violent, dysphoric one—the one about racialized nakedness inherited from the Enlightenment so necessary to Western constructions of humanity and the one that speaks of the objectiﬁcation, commodiﬁcation, and fetishization of racialized skin, especially black female skin. 14 While the gendered aspects of Modernism’s skin preoccupation have been addressed by scholars (Schor, Wigley), what has been less studied or observed is the element of race in this aesthetic history. 15 In architectural theory, for example, the topic of race rarely arises; yet the skin trope underlying modern architectural conceptions of (white or pure) surface demands a critical engagement with ideas of racial difference."[Cheng, Anne Anlin *Second Skin: Josephine Baker & the Modern Surface*. Oxford University Press, 2011.]

06. "They provided the ‘desiring skin’ that would shield and protect. However, the scars remained. As French analyst Didier Anzieu argues, ‘skin shields the equilibrium of our internal functioning from exogenous disruptions’, Gabriel Koureas 183 but in its scars, ‘it preserves the marks of disruptions’. 104 It is exactly these scars that Lewis’s Tyronic mask, like a prosthetic skin, attempted to hide."[Brauer, Fae, and Anthea Callen (eds.) *Art, Sex and Eugenics: Corpus Delecti*. Ashgate, 2008.]

07. "2. Sim ple N atural Products Used in a Com pletely N atural State o r after  Being Treated with a Technical Process That Does N ot Fundam entally  Change the Structural an d Form al Properties o f  the M aterial § 26 Our Own Skin: The Most Natural Cover Without a doubt, the first natural product to be considered here is our own  hide or human skin. The remarkable cultural-historical phenomenon of painting and tattooing the skin is also of great interest for the history of style. We  do not really know whether the painted or etched lines and scrolls with which  people who go partly or entirely naked almost universally decorate their skin  (a custom that has survived for a very long time even among highly civilized "[INPUT: Semper__Style_in_the_Technical_and_Tectonic_Arts_or_Practical_Aesthetics.pdf]

08. "Illustration by Paul Hambruch. Reprinted from Paul Hambruch and Anneliese Eilers, Ponape: Gesellschaft und Geistige Kultur, Wirtschaft und Stoffliche Kultur (Hamburg: Friedrichsen, De Gruyter, 1936), 2:277. 23. The design is formed by the interplay of light and dark, of clear skin and marked skin, of positive and negative. Both elements are necessary to create the pattern, which weaves ink and skin together to form a kind of living tapestry."[Ellis, Juniper *Tattooing the World: Pacific Designs in Print and Skin*. Columbia University Press, 2008.]

09. "The appearance of the skin is a common focus in societies around the world. Clear, clean, healthy skin is considered beautiful in many cultures, but many other cultures use body paint to make people more beautiful, powerful, or to convey important social information about the person. Artificially lightened skin is considered attractive in many cultures, especially where light skin is associated with the upper classes, and dark skin with working people. For that reason, one of the 17:2 GGBD118C0C GR3695/DeMello July 31, 2007 COSM ETICS 83 earliest forms of makeup found in many stratified societies is white face powder."[DeMello, Margo *Encyclopedia of Body Adornment*. Greenwood, 2007.]

10. "It highlights the potential sexiness of the dress, which through being merely suggested and then immediately withdrawn, comes across as all the more enticing and addictive. Helmut Lang’s fashion work shows skin at the expense of ﬁgure. It plays upon the theme of fabric as second skin. The received view of the sexiness of clothes rests upon an intentional exposure of skin as a clearly deﬁned part of a clearly silhouetted ﬁgure. Clothes make people sexy by imparting signiﬁcance to what is otherwise sensually meaningless, by transferring bare ﬂesh into a code."[Vinken, Barbara *Fashion Zeitgeist: Trends and Cycles in the Fashion System*. 2005.]

11. "This is why they were not decried for appearing able to elicit the spectator’s gaze without their consent and to stir up their passions. Instead they were commended. As desire is never unilateral but fluid, paradoxically Courtois’ and Leroux’s flaunting of the erogenous zones of the male body, like the baring of the female body by Enjolras, might just as easily have aroused the very homoeroticism and ‘inverted’ sexual practices reviled by Bertillon and Pinard. 158 The homoeroticism imbricated within Bersani’s concept of ‘desiring skin’ examined by Koureas in Chapter 5 is illustrated by the skin-to-skin contact between the naked male bodies in Leroux’s painting."[Brauer, Fae, and Anthea Callen (eds.) *Art, Sex and Eugenics: Corpus Delecti*. Ashgate, 2008.]

12. "In the Flesh: The Cultural Politics of Body Modification. New York: Palgrave Macmillan, 2003. P L A S T I C S U R G E RY See Cosmetic Surgery P O C K E T I N G A N D S TA P L I N G Pocketing is a procedure that borrows the technology of surface piercing but results in a look that is often described as “anti-piercing” in that the ends of the 17:46 GGBD118C0P GR3695/DeMello July 31, 2007 PRIM ITIVISM jewelry do not emerge from the skin, but instead remain hidden beneath the skin."[DeMello, Margo *Encyclopedia of Body Adornment*. Greenwood, 2007.]

13. "Portraits appear, as when the scourge of syphilis invents a type of person — the so-called syphilide (a far cry from its near homophone “sylphide”). Another head turned to profile is a conglomeration of bends, folds, and impossible torsions of skin amounting to a type that could be termed a convolute. Skin is what matters most, but not real skin. Instead, Smith’s Atlas stages a dream about skin. The dreamer is an illustrator or surgeon for whom skin tears like paper, in whose hand, and through whose eye, bodies can be cut from the swath of their environment like paper dolls."[(ed.), Michael Sappol *Hidden Treasure  The National Library of Medicine*. Blast Books, 2012.]

14. "The underlying reference to metamorphosis, alluding to an insect shedding its outer skin, is suggested and his use of transparent textiles heightens the magical effect: The model glows through this golden paper skin, like an insect set in amber . . . One of Miyake’s most innovative images is found in the bark of a tree. The body can move inside a tube of fabric as if in a caterpillar skin. Miyake asked: ‘Did you know there’s a tree in Africa where the bark comes off completely?"[English, Bonnie *Japanese Fashion Designers: The Work and Influence of Issey Miyake, Yohji Yamamoto and Rei Kawakubo*. Bloomsbury Academic, 2011.]

15. "S Dover, 2002, p. 211 p. 108: Dennis Potter speaks about his skin disease in Potter on Potter, Graham Fuller, (ed. )Faber, London, 1993 p. 110: Andrew Strathern on skin condition and semen, see Body Thoughts, A. J. Strathern, University of Michigan Press, Ann Arbour, 1996, p. 85 She’s Got Perfect Skin Information on skin, ageing, and efficacy of ‘cosmeceuticals’ drawn from DermNet NZ ; The Oxford Companion to the Body, Blakemore and Jennett, 2001; and Turkington and Dover, Skin Deep: an A–Z of skin disorders, treatments, and health, Facts on File, New York, 1996 Historical information on beauty treatments found in Fashion in Makeup from Ancient to Modern Times, R. Corson, Universe Books, New York, 1972 p. 117: ‘Louise is the girl with the perfect skin …’, from: ‘Perfect Skin’, L. Cole, Rattlesnakes, Geffen Records, released 1984 p. 120: Guardian article on the harvesting of skin by a Chinese pharmaceutical company, see ‘The beauty products from the skin of executed Chinese prisoners’, I. Cobain and A."[Cuskelly, Maryrose *Original Skin: Exploring the Marvels of the Human Hide*. Counterpoint, 2011.]

16. "‘Shedding one’s skin’ is both an image of growth and of re-invention, and yet skin, quixotically, is also a symbol of intransigence. The rhetorical question posed in Jeremiah 13:23, ‘Can the Ethiopian change his skin, or the leopard change his spots?’ makes the point that one accustomed to doing evil is unlikely to alter their behaviour and do good. To be comfortable in your own unchangeable skin is to be at ease with the person you have become: your metaphorical 8 Skin skin ‘fits like a glove’, and you wear your imperfections and idiosyncrasies lightly."[Cuskelly, Maryrose *Original Skin: Exploring the Marvels of the Human Hide*. Counterpoint, 2011.]

17. "When talking about American or South African history, Samoans (young people, not just teachers) condemn the racism that has been rife in those countries and say, ‘one should not be fa’ailogalanu’, ‘one should not attribute any meaning to [skin] colour’. The fairness of the skin (Samoans say ‘the whiteness’) relates to the cosmological and cosmogonic value of the sun’s ‘light’, ao—which, for Samoans is not a question of skin ‘colour’. Persons of high status stayed inside their houses in order to avoid the fairness of the skin darkening under the rays of the sun."[Tcherkezoff, Serge *First Contacts in Polynesia the Samoan Case (1722-1848) : Western Misunderstanding About Sexuality and Divinity*. 2011.]

18. "The result is that during sexual activity, particularly foreplay, the shaft covering is rather easily stroked onto and over the glans in a manner which was never before possible for these circumcised men. 3. Added Skin Surface. It may seem strange to discuss the enhanced sensitivity of the glans and the mobility of the shaft skin before discussing the additional skin itself. But, actually, this is the order in which the benefits are typically experienced. Long before the restoring male has enough expanded skin surface to see his new foreskin begin to stay in place without tape, he is enjoying the enhanced sensitivity of his glans and the increased mobility of his shaft skin."[Bigelow, Jim *The Joy of Uncircumcising!*. 2017.]

19. "Austronesian speakers have employed a range of materials for puncturing the skin. To the west, in island and mainland Southeast Asia, thorns of citrus (family Rutaceae) are used to pierce the skin, whereas in Polynesia, shaped implements of bone and pearl 162 LOUISE FURE y shell (of the pearl oyster, Pinctada sp. )appear in the archaeological and ethnographic records."[Krutak, Lars, and Aaron Deter-Wolf *Ancient Ink: The Archaeology of Tattooing*. Hardcover. University of Washington Press, 2017.]

20. "51). Indeed, this skin piece was torn and crumpled, preventing it from better revealing the scarcely visible tattoo located on the outer part of the foot. In 2013, the skin fragment was restored in The Hermitage conservation workshop and again investigated through infrared photography. As a result, a figure of a fantastic animal measuring 18 by 8 cm came to light (figs."[Krutak, Lars, and Aaron Deter-Wolf *Ancient Ink: The Archaeology of Tattooing*. Hardcover. University of Washington Press, 2017.]

21. "Among dark-skinned tribes in Africa, scarification was popular (effective tattooing was not possible on very dark skin). This involved scratching or cutting the skin in patterns, sometimes rubbing a plant extract or ash into the wounds, to make scar tissue form in raised designs that lasted a lifetime. The designs used for body painting, tattoos, and scarification were often symbolic or magical. Piercing Piercing involves making a hole in part of the body through which some kind of decoration can be worn."[Rooney, Anne *The Eighteenth Century*. Facts on File, 2005.]

22. "We all know how embarrassing it is facing other people when our skin has broken out in spots or blemishes, a rash or eczema. Our skin communicates something of our internal state of mind; others assess not only our attractiveness but also our mood and health from its condition. From Botox to skin whiteners, skin peels to fillers, women and men across the world, from all cultures and of all ethnicities, go to great lengths and expense to make their skin as ‘perfect’ as possible."[Corner, Frances *Why Fashion Matters*. Thames & Hudson, 2014.]

23. "T h e rectangular design of the pig sty (ivam ai), with its stalls, is of ten drawn with a stick in path dirt. T h e cutting of the pig skin is also drawn. A n outline of the steamed pig skin is scratched into the earth w i t h a sharp stick. T h e n the children cut it up, marking the cuts of the bamboo knife, and saying which piece goes to w h o m . Sometimes a simpler version of this is made b y drawing a series of rectangles, w h e r e each rectangle represents a piece of skin."[Heider, Karl G. *The Dugum Dani: A Papuan Culture in the Highlands of West New Guinea*. Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research, 1970.]

24. "The experiments made were to lead to a method of treating the skins to make them soft enough to work with. Like human skin, animal skin consists of the epidermis (the outer layer), dermis (the inner layer) and subcutaneous fatty tissue. The dermis consists mainly of collagen and a semifluid ground substance. Collagen is made of thread-like fibres, composed of protein. These fibres make the skin tough and strong. Between the fibres is the ground substance, which binds water and lies like a gel between the fibre bunches."[Hansen, Jens Peder Hart *The Greenland Mummies*. Mcgill Queens University Press, 1991.]

25. "I said in a previous chapter that the skin breathes as well as the lungs, though in a less degree, and if the air is permitted to reach the skin it not only removes waste and injurious substances from the body, but it also gives oxygen to the body. This oxygen combines with the carbon in the small blood-vessels, which in countless multitudes underlie the skin, and heat is given off."[Johnson, Kim K. P., Susan J. Torntore, and Joanne B. Eicher *Fashion Foundations: Early Writings on Fashion and Dress*. Berg Publishers, 2003.]