Created: 2025-12-19 13:59:39
Origin: suggested
Selected: Chapter 7 Visualisation Principles It is an interesting contradiction that although the most important aspect of architectural design is the attractive disposition and massing of three-dimensional solids, an architect develops a design almost entirely from the two-dimensional plans and elevations. Perspectives may be drawn during the sketch design phase, but these will usually be rather rough and poorly detailed.[(Auth.), R. A. Reynolds *Computing for Architects*. Elsevier Ltd, Butterworth-Heinemann, 1987.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Chapter 7 Visualisation Principles It is an interesting contradiction that although the most important aspect of architectural design is the attractive disposition and massing of three-dimensional solids, an architect develops a design almost entirely from the two-dimensional plans and elevations. Perspectives may be drawn during the sketch design phase, but these will usually be rather rough and poorly detailed."[(Auth.), R. A. Reynolds *Computing for Architects*. Elsevier Ltd, Butterworth-Heinemann, 1987.]

02. "By combining these two branches of mathematics, Alexander seeks to break a  design problem into its component parts. This process identifies and represents every  design variable in a project and every relationship between these design variables. This allows Alexander to represent the underlying structure of a design problem as  a series of nodes and connections (Fig. 15. 1). The next stage in Alexander’s process  involves using computational analysis to organise the design variables into a treelike  hierarchy to guide the designer on which misfits to address first."[INPUT: Lee et al. - 2024 - Multimodality in Architecture Collaboration, Technology and Education.pdf]

03. "So too in architectural drawing, light showed up late. And what it  showed up when it arrived was space. It was a great conquest, but it was  neither complete nor sudden; architectural space would remain, one way  or another, limited by and bonded to the pictures that normally gave  access to it. SEE I N G THR O U G H PA PER  109  51  Alberti~ perspective construction  (drawn by the author). E = eye; C = cen- tric point; PP =picture plane; m = tile  module. HORIZON   The perspective projections of the painter and the parallel (orthographic)  projections of the architect both bring space into pictures. 8 The differences between post-Renaissance painting and post-Renaissance architecture are subsumed within this similarity; both arts had conquered the  same territory with similar equipment at much the same time."[INPUT: Evans - 1995 - The projective cast architecture and its three ge.pdf]

04. "This is because “no one theatre artist works independently to create  a performance” (Malloy 2014, p. 1). Secondly, theatre and operatic design is a type  of multimodal, micro-design problem rare in architecture, but it also directly engages  with similar spatial and representational concerns. Finally, theatre and operatic design  occurs within the confines or limits of a building and negotiating the connections  between the physical architecture and the temporal staging of a production is one  crucial goal of the design team."[INPUT: Lee et al. - 2024 - Multimodality in Architecture Collaboration, Technology and Education.pdf]

05. "Color, typography, imagery, and format are applied within a design layout to create the right sense of balance, tension, proportion, and appeal. This is how design elements form the communicative attributes of the packaging design. Applying design principles to packaging layout can significantly enhance the understanding of what makes one comunicate effectively while another appears unresolved. Balance Balance is the convergence of a design’s elements to create an integrated whole."[Klimchuk, Marianne R., and Sandra A. Krasovec *Packaging Design: Successful Product Branding From Concept to Shelf*. 2nd ed. Wiley, 2013.]

06. "Part III  Education  11  Multimodality and Architectural Education . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 199  Mi Jeong Kim, Ju Hyun Lee, and Michael J. Ostwald  12  Urban and Architectural Design Education Using the IC-PBL  Model on a Virtual Platform . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 211  Hyungmo Yang and Mi Jeong Kim  13  The Impact of Visual Character on Perceived Stress Levels:  An Intelligent Approach Applied to University Campus Design . . . . 229  Zhixian Li, Xiaoyi Zu, Ju Hyun Lee, and Michael J. Ostwald  14  Design Education and Learner Experiences  in a Computer-Mediated Environment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 245  Myung Eun Cho and Mi Jeong Kim  15  Pattern Languages: Concepts and Applications in Design  for Ageing and Design Education . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 263  Michael J. Dawes "[INPUT: Lee et al. - 2024 - Multimodality in Architecture Collaboration, Technology and Education.pdf]

07. "Design is thus characterized as an iterative proce88 that involves trade-ofrs. In general, artificial intelligence BJStems implement the design process 88 a search through a design abstraction space b7 succe88ivelr applring operators to the problem specification to satisfr the goals of the design and the constraints of the task. Researchers have focused on areas that computer scientists tend to be familiar with and which are most amenable to conventional programming styles, like VLSI layout and timing, electrical circuit analysis and automatic programming."[Sriram, D., and R. Adey *Applications of Artificial Intelligence in Engineering Problems: Proceedings of the 1st International Conference, Southampton University, U.K April 1986*. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 1986.]

08. "Figure 7. 9 St Paneras station It is also possible that a building is difficult to describe to the computer not because it is particularly complex, but because of its form. An example of this is the Guggenheim Museum in New York, designed by Frank Lloyd Wright. One view of this is shown in Figure 7. 10. It would be very difficult to describe the doubly curved shape of this building and would require a lot of data to be assembled. Data collection 119 Figure 7. 10 The Guggenheim museum (courtesy Sandra Wilson) The most popular method of data collection used by modern visualisation programs is to make available a range of elementary solids such as boxes, cylinders and pyramids."[(Auth.), R. A. Reynolds *Computing for Architects*. Elsevier Ltd, Butterworth-Heinemann, 1987.]

09. "In computer-aided design the optimization strategy plays an important role in accomplishing the last three steps, namely, searching for feasible solutions, comparing alternatives and choosing the optimal solution to be implemented. However, design problems usually involve multiple measures of merit which are to be considered simultaneously in order to judge the performance of the design."[Sriram, D., and R. Adey *Applications of Artificial Intelligence in Engineering Problems: Proceedings of the 1st International Conference, Southampton University, U.K April 1986*. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 1986.]

10. "In a different field of design, an architect produces sketches and outlines and discusses these with the client before formalizing a design in the form of a blueprint. Design is rarely a straightforward process and typically involves much iteration and exploration of both requirements (what the system is meant to do and how it should do it) and design solutions. There are many definitions of ‘design’. Most definitions recognize that both problem and solution need to evolve during the design process; rarely can you completely specify something before some design work has been done."[Benyon, David, Phil Turner, and Susan Turner *Designing Interactive Systems: People, Activities, Contexts, Technologies*. Addison Wesley, 2005.]

11. "By holistic, I mean that it sees interaction within a larger frame, often a cultural frame, and recognizes that an interactive artifact must be designed as a part of this larger system. By expressive, I mean that it recognizes the ways in which design and design motifs express systems of values. Design communicates . So a key component of interaction design involves considering the message that the design should communicate and how this relates both to the task at hand and to the details of the design."[Dourish, Paul *Where the Action Is: The Foundations of Embodied Interaction (Bradford Books)*. The MIT Press, 2001.]

12. "J. S. Gero, North-Holland, Amsterdam, pp. 47-69. Winston, P. H. (1984). Artificial Intelligence, 2nd edn, Addison-Wesley, Reading, Massachusetts. 353 CONSTRAINTS 355 The Representation and Use of Constraints in Structural Design D. Sriram and M. L. Maher Department of Civil Engineering, Carnegie- Mellon University, Pittsburg, PA 15213 1. INTRODUCTION Design is, perhaps, the toughest problem solving activity that engineers perform. Design can be viewed as (Mostow, 1985) constructing an artifact or structure that: 1. satisfies a given functional specification, 2. conforms to the limitations of the resources, and 3. satisfies implicit and explicit design criteria on the form of the artifact."[Sriram, D., and R. Adey *Applications of Artificial Intelligence in Engineering Problems: Proceedings of the 1st International Conference, Southampton University, U.K April 1986*. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 1986.]

13. "Ideas and philosophy from architecture, garden design, interior design, fashion and jewellery design all crop up in various ways and different forms. It is not easy to simply pick up ideas from design disciplines, as much design knowledge is specific to a genre. Designers need to know the materials they work with and it is likely that more specialist design disciplines will emerge."[Benyon, David, Phil Turner, and Susan Turner *Designing Interactive Systems: People, Activities, Contexts, Technologies*. Addison Wesley, 2005.]

14. "It covers information architecture (Chapter 23) but also includes specifying the interaction design. The key feature here is to establish a clear conceptual model. ■ The ‘skeleton’ plane is concerned with information design, navigation design and interface design. We discuss navigation in some detail in Chapter 25 ■ The final element of Garrett’s scheme is the ‘surface’ plane concerned with the aesthetics of the site and with ensuring that good design guidelines are followed."[Benyon, David, Phil Turner, and Susan Turner *Designing Interactive Systems: People, Activities, Contexts, Technologies*. Addison Wesley, 2005.]

15. "and disposition of the figures this, I confess, I do not comprehend vet, M'hile I acknowledo-e the beauty of certain forms gelo) ; ; THE LAMP OF 152 and proportions similar merits in arcliitectiire, I may LIFJ;. . cannot consistently deny that though exist in painting, I am unfortunately unable to appreciate them. "I think these passages very valuable, as showing the effect of a contracted knowledge and false taste in painting architect's understanding of his own art ; upon an and especially with what curious notions, or lack of notions, about proportion, that art has been sometimes practised."[John, Ruskin *The Complete Works.*. The Kelmscott Society Publishers, NY, 1900.]