Created: 2025-11-02 18:17:37
Origin: suggested
Selected: If all art is in essence poetry, then the arts of architecture, painting, sculpture, and music must be traced back to poesy. That is pure arbitrariness. It certainly is, as long as we mean that those arts are varieties of the art of language, if it is permissible to characterize poesy by that easily misinterpretable title. But poesy is only The Origin of the Work of Art $) 71 one mode of the lighting projection of truth, i. e. , of poetic composition in this wider sense. Nevertheless, the linguistic work, the poem in the narrower sense, has a privileged position in the domain of the arts.[Poetry, Language, Thought , Martin Heidegger, 2001]

--- Context List ---
01. "If all art is in essence poetry, then the arts of architecture, painting, sculpture, and music must be traced back to poesy. That is pure arbitrariness. It certainly is, as long as we mean that those arts are varieties of the art of language, if it is permissible to characterize poesy by that easily misinterpretable title. But poesy is only The Origin of the Work of Art $) 71 one mode of the lighting projection of truth, i. e. , of poetic composition in this wider sense. Nevertheless, the linguistic work, the poem in the narrower sense, has a privileged position in the domain of the arts."[Poetry, Language, Thought , Martin Heidegger, 2001]

02. "There is something stony in a work of architecture, wooden in a carving, colored in a painting, spoken in a linguistic work, sonorous in a musical composition. The thingly element is so irremovably present in the art work that we are compelled rather to say conversely that the architectural work is in stone, the carving is in wood, the painting in color, the linguistic work in speech, the musical composition in sound. "Obviously," it will be replied. No doubt. But what is this self-evident thingly element in the work of art?"[Poetry, Language, Thought , Martin Heidegger, 2001]

03. "The work's createdness, however, can obviously be grasped only in terms of the process of creation. Thus, constrained by the facts, we must consent after all to go into the activity of the artist in order to arrive at the origin of the work of art. The attempt to define the work-being of the work purely in terms of the work itself proves to be unfeasible. In turning away now from the work to examine the nature of the creative process, we should like nevertheless to keep in mind what was said first of the picture of the peasant shoes and later of the Greek temple."[Poetry, Language, Thought , Martin Heidegger, 2001]

04. "Art works universally display a thingly character, The Origin of the Work of Art $0 39 albeit in a wholly distinct way. The attempt to interpret this thingcharacter of the work with the aid of the usual thing-concepts failed—not only because these concepts do not lay hold of the thingly feature, but because, in raising the question of its thingly substructure, we force the work into a preconceivedframeworkby which we obstruct our own access to the work-being of the work. Nothing can be discovered about the thingly aspect of the work so long as the pure self-subsistence of the work has not distincdy displayed itself."[Poetry, Language, Thought , Martin Heidegger, 2001]

05. "The work's own peculiar reality, on the other hand, is brought to bear ohly where the work is preserved in the truth that happens by the work itself. The work's reality is determined in its basic features by the nature of the work's being. We can now return to our opening question: how do matters stand with the work's thingly feature that is to guarantee its immediate reality?They stand so that now we no longer raise this question about the work's thingly element; for as long as we ask it, we take the work directly and as a foregone conclusion, as an object that is simply there."[Poetry, Language, Thought , Martin Heidegger, 2001]

06. "In fine art the art itself is not beautiful, but is called so because it produces the beautiful. Truth, in contrast, belongs to logic. Beauty, however, is reserved for aesthetics. But perhaps the proposition that art is truth setting itself to 36 C& Poetry, Language, Thought work intends to revive the fortunately obsolete view that art is an imitation and depiction of reality?The reproduction of what exists requires, to be sure, agreement with the actual being, adaptation to it; the Middle Ages called it adaequatio; Aristotle already spoke of homoiosis."[Poetry, Language, Thought , Martin Heidegger, 2001]

07. "But with the same thought and the same form thought the form of words may very well be different, it is merely the outward clothing of the thought, which, on the other hand, is inseparable from its form. Thus grammar only explains the clothing of the forms of The parts of speech can therefore be deduced thought. of for from the original forms of thought themselves which are their work is to express independent of all language these forms of thought in all their modifications. They are the instrument and the clothing of the forms of thought, and must be accurately adapted to the structure ; of the latter, so that (3. )"[The World As Will And Idea, Arthur Schopenhauer, 2008]

08. "Anyone can easily see that we are moving in a circle. Ordinary understanding demands that this circle be avoided because it violates logic. What art is can be gathered from a comparative examination of actual art works. But how are we to be certain that we are indeed basing such an examination on art works if we do not know beforehand what art is?And the nature of art can no more be arrived at by a derivation from higher concepts than by a collection of characteristics of actual art works. For such a derivation, too, already has in view the characteristics that must suffice to establish that what we take in advance to be an art work is one in fact."[Poetry, Language, Thought , Martin Heidegger, 2001]

09. "To be sure. The distinction of matter and form is the conceptual The Origin of the Work of Art $j) 27 schema which is used, in the greatest variety of ways, quite generally for all art theory and aesthetics. This incontestable fact, however, proves neither that the distinction of matter and form is adequately founded, nor that it belongs originally to the domain of art and the art work. Moreover, the range of application of this pair of concepts has long extended far beyond thefieldof aesthetics. Form and content are the most hackneyed concepts under which anything and everything may be subsumed."[Poetry, Language, Thought , Martin Heidegger, 2001]

10. "And is it not this thingiy feature in the work that the artist really makes by his handicraft?Our aim is to arrive at the immediate and full reality of the work of art, for only in this way shall we discover real art also within it. Hence we must first bring to view the thingiy element of the work. To this end it is necessary that we should know with sufficient clarity what a thing is. Only then can we say whether the art work is a thing, but a thing to which something else adheres; only then can we decide whether the work is at bottom something else and not a thing at all."[Poetry, Language, Thought , Martin Heidegger, 2001]