Created: 2025-11-14 22:45:14
Origin: suggested
Selected: It made sense to provide A Hard Day’s Night with a subtext of parodic references to the clichés of Hollywood musicals, precisely because the movie itself was so unlike the sort of banal movie musical that its viewers had every reason to expect. In A Hard Day’s Night, moreover, this parodic dimension remains a subtext, a subsidiary pleasure of the film. But Help!tries to enlarge so strenuously on the success of its predecessor that it turns referentiality into a style: nearly every frame of the picture is explicitly derived from some other genre of film.[Gould, Jonathan *Can't Buy Me Love: The Beatles, Britain, and America*. Crown Publishing Group, 2007.]

--- Context List ---
01. "It made sense to provide A Hard Day’s Night with a subtext of parodic references to the clichés of Hollywood musicals, precisely because the movie itself was so unlike the sort of banal movie musical that its viewers had every reason to expect. In A Hard Day’s Night, moreover, this parodic dimension remains a subtext, a subsidiary pleasure of the film. But Help!tries to enlarge so strenuously on the success of its predecessor that it turns referentiality into a style: nearly every frame of the picture is explicitly derived from some other genre of film."[Gould, Jonathan *Can't Buy Me Love: The Beatles, Britain, and America*. Crown Publishing Group, 2007.]

02. "We focus on the two models that I have worked on, which happen to be the two most fully developed ones at the time, the SKY model (Cohen 1995; Wainscoat et al. 1992) and the Besançon model (Robin and Crézé 1986; Robin et al. 2003). Three features of these models are directly relevant to our epistemological concern. First, the two models have roughly the same intended content (i. e. , again following Kitcher’s [2001, ch. 5] use of the terminology in the case of maps, the two models are supposed to represent the same type of entities and relations)."[Ruphy, Stephanie *Scientific Pluralism Reconsidered: A New Approach to the (Dis)unity of Science*. University of Pittsburgh Press, 2017.]

03. "For instance, the movie Sliding Doors interleaves two variants of a love story, following the fortunes of two instances of the same couple in two universes which initially differ only in one small detail. In a related genre, known as ‘alternative history’, one of the two stories need not be told explicitly because it is a part of our own history and is assumed to be known to the audience."[Deutsch, David *The Beginning of Infinity: Explanations That Transform the World*. Allen Lane, 2011.]

04. "The ﬁrst, ofﬁcially titled Number 5 but known as Smile, showed John’s face in close-up, smiling, grimacing, and waggling his eyebrows. Taken with a camera that recorded 20,000 frames per second, this animated snapshot could be stretched out to almost indeﬁnite length; Yoko originally intended it to last four hours, but eventually whittled it to ﬁfty-two minutes. The second of these so-different Kenwood home movies was called Two Virgins, after the music they had made together in John’s studio."[Norman, Philip *John Lennon: The Life*. HarperCollins, 2008.]

05. "Suppose he has another conception, linked to Rep('orme') (French for 'elm'), which happens to contain all the same descriptive information as his conception of beech, and even contains a qualitatively identical perceptual prototype (cf. the situation described in Putnam 1981, pp. 18-19; but where Putnam puts a different gloss on it). Not only is it the case that Hilaire has access to two distinct public concepts, but he also has in his head two distinct conceptions linked to different Reps. The two conceptions stay separate because Hilaire takes 'hetre' and 'orme' to be names of different kinds of trees."[Preston, John *Thought and Language (Royal Institute of Philosophy Supplements; 42)*. Cambridge University Press, 1997.]

06. "The first statement of it was by Loar (1988). Loar introduced a distinction between social contents, which are individuated in line with the semantics of the subject's public language, and psychological contents, individuated in accordance with the subject's personal psychological profile. In certain cases, the two modes of individuation pull apart. According to Loar, Burge's characters present us with a choice between these two modes of individuation."[Preston, John *Thought and Language (Royal Institute of Philosophy Supplements; 42)*. Cambridge University Press, 1997.]

07. "First, it offers a sketch of the life of Richard Jenkins, later Richard Burton, from his birth in 1925 through to the beginning of what may be called the ‘diary years’, in 1965. During these first four decades Burton did keep two diaries which are reproduced in this volume: one in 1939/40, when he was still Richard Jenkins, and one in 1960, when he was married to his first wife, Sybil. Both are interesting, but neither offers anything in the way of a continuous narrative which might replace a broader overview of the subject's life in these years."[Burton, Richard, and Chris Williams *The Richard Burton Diaries*. Yale University Press, 2012.]

08. "Probably the easiest way to understand this abstract concept is by way of an analogy: ﬁlm directors do the same thing for movies. Ron Howard and the Coen Brothers might take the same script and make radically different movies, because their perspectives are so different. Similarly, the same song in the hands of two different record producers might come out sounding totally different."[J., Summers *Making and Marketing Music: The Musician's Guide to Financing, Distributuing and Promoting Albums*. 2004.]

09. "It is a way of attacking anew, perhaps, the questions about communicative successes and failures as they are the products of arrangements of open and closed channels up and down. 3. The possible manipulations that can be performed on the time behavior of communications gets us an extremely large number of topics even if we consider the case of only a two “person” net (I use person in quotes to underline the fact that a lecturer addressing an audience, or two corporations, or two individuals, etc. come under the heading of a “two person net. ” In fact, I’ll risk the statement for possible argument, that the overwhelming number of communicative situations are two person nets. ) 254 ▼ Appendix 2: Problematical Areas in Communicative Work Consider the following diagram. The diagram presents only the logically possible paths of communications in a two person net. These are designated by letters. 1 and 2 are communicants. The letters a to f indicate all the logically possible paths of signals."[Garfinkel, Harold, and Anne Rawls (ed.) *Toward a Sociological Theory of Information*. Paradigm, 2008.]

10. "Apparent parallels  in representation appear to reinforce an affinity between the two."[INPUT: AndrewWitt-Formulations.pdf]

11. "There are quite a few pages of course which contain only a line or two while others, especially in a wordy costume piece of this kind have long uninterrupted monologues. The script is 144 pages long. I do not speak on about 35 of them. That leaves 109. At ten a day that theoretically gives me the whole part of eleven days, though in actual fact it is generally about twice as long because the period of study becomes longer and longer as more and more is committed to memory and the revision extends itself day by day."[Burton, Richard, and Chris Williams *The Richard Burton Diaries*. Yale University Press, 2012.]

12. "One easy way to demonstrate this point is by contrasting two works by the same artist, created under different emotional circumstances. For argument’s sake, let’s consider the wayward career of the popular Canadian singer Alanis Morissette, who at the beginning of 1993 was approaching nineteen and already on her way to becoming a has-been. Morissette’s first two albums had been studio- manufactured attempts to capitalize on the bubblegum dance craze of the late eighties, which was already a fading trend by the time the albums were released."[Zara, Christopher, and Robbie Lee *Tortured artists : from Picasso and Monroe to Warhol and Winehouse, the twisted secrets of the world's most creative minds*. Avon, Mass., Newton Abbot: F W Media, Inc.;Adams Media, David & Charles [distributor], 2012.]

13. "I argued, in section 3. 2, that given a function, the approaches in the symbolic and nonsymbolic paradigms may make rather different representational commitments; in compositional terms, they may be composing rather different subfunctions. In this section I am arguing, seemingly paradoxically, that for complex functions the two theories converge in their representational commitments. A way to clarify this is to think of two stages in the decomposition: an architecture-independent and an architecturedependent one."[(editor), Derek Partridge, and Yorick Wilks (editor) *The Foundations of Artificial Intelligence: A Sourcebook*. annotated edition. Cambridge University Press, 1990.]

14. "Another first was that I got to see a book of mine being read all around New York City, on subways, in parks, anywhere I went. That was exciting. Equally thrilling and different from my first book, Eyes early on became a perennial candidate for film adaptation. Since its publication two decades ago, the book has been under film option all but maybe fifteen months, and I've cowritten two versions of unfilmed screenplays based on the novel, including a draft written with director Frank Perry, a fascinating experience."[Picano, Felice *A House on the Ocean, a House on the Bay (a memoir)*. Faber & Faber, 1998.]

15. "I am proposing to explain the ordinary word Ware' by abandoning it altogether and talking about two very different words, 'aware^ and 'aware2\ To some this may seem like an admission of madness, but there is no alternative method of analysis in this case. It is not the case that there are two clearly different ordinary senses of the word 'aware', the way there are two senses of 'feel' ('I feel dizzy' and 'He is feeling his way around in the dark')."[Dennett, Daniel C. *Content and Consciousness*. 2nd ed. Routledge, 1986.]