Created: 2025-11-07 12:41:43
Origin: suggested
Selected: Contents Introduction Breaking Boundaries: Towards a Global Theory of Architectural Representation Eric Roose Chapter 1 The Architectural Representation of Reality: The Built Environment as the Materialization of a Mental Construct Aart Mekking Chapter 2 The Architectural Representation of Islam: Saintly Brilliance in the New Design for the Amsterdam Taibah Mosque Eric Roose Chapter 3 The Architectural Representation of Paradise: Sufi Cosmology and the Four-ı̄wān Plan Elena Paskaleva Chapter 4 The Architectural Representation of Taboo: Toilet Taboos as Guardians of Old Taiwanese Representations of Family Life En-Yu Huang Chapter 5 The Architectural Representation of Diversity: Changing Scopes to Meet Changing Realities in The Hague’s Transvaal Neighbourhood Aart Mekking 7 23 51 95 141 173 List of Contributors 207 Classified Index 209 5 Introduction Breaking Boundaries: Towards a Global Theory of Architectural Representation Eric Roose In a world that is growing smaller by the day, we are left with architectural tools that no longer suffice for the description, the interpretation, and certainly not the creation of a built environment that holds the increasingly diverse communities within today’s complex social situations.[Aart J.J. Mekking, Eric Roose. *The Global Built Environment as a Representation of Realities: Why and How Architecture Should Be the Subject of Worldwide Comparison*. 2009.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Contents Introduction Breaking Boundaries: Towards a Global Theory of Architectural Representation Eric Roose Chapter 1 The Architectural Representation of Reality: The Built Environment as the Materialization of a Mental Construct Aart Mekking Chapter 2 The Architectural Representation of Islam: Saintly Brilliance in the New Design for the Amsterdam Taibah Mosque Eric Roose Chapter 3 The Architectural Representation of Paradise: Sufi Cosmology and the Four-ı̄wān Plan Elena Paskaleva Chapter 4 The Architectural Representation of Taboo: Toilet Taboos as Guardians of Old Taiwanese Representations of Family Life En-Yu Huang Chapter 5 The Architectural Representation of Diversity: Changing Scopes to Meet Changing Realities in The Hague’s Transvaal Neighbourhood Aart Mekking 7 23 51 95 141 173 List of Contributors 207 Classified Index 209 5 Introduction Breaking Boundaries: Towards a Global Theory of Architectural Representation Eric Roose In a world that is growing smaller by the day, we are left with architectural tools that no longer suffice for the description, the interpretation, and certainly not the creation of a built environment that holds the increasingly diverse communities within today’s complex social situations."[Aart J.J. Mekking, Eric Roose. *The Global Built Environment as a Representation of Realities: Why and How Architecture Should Be the Subject of Worldwide Comparison*. 2009.]

02. "Such a methodology entails an imaginative engagement with limits—a renegotiation of the complex network of use values, political imperatives, technological systems, consumer desires, and economic formulas that invariably circumscribe the architectural project. By maneuvering tactically within these operational boundaries, architects can tease out the latencies of normative configurations, generating new social and spatial possibilities from within the logics of the given. In this way, architectural production is recast as a form of restricted play, a pleasurable manipulation of bounds and constraints, an improvisation within the parameters of emergent and pervasive organizational structures."[Elite Kedan, Jon Dreyfous, Craig Mutter. *Provisional: Emerging Modes of Architectural Practice USA*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2009.]

03. "A contemporary building is increasingly heterogeneous and likely to include materials and systems from three or more continents. When architectural innovation is confined to the image of a building, new technologies or materials are limited to their decorative effects. If our ideas about architecture remain fluid, then buildings can continually be reconceived relative to changing problems or conditions. While new technologies are starting to erode the limitations of standardization and enable more fluid and adaptive responses to material fabrication, our social and cultural habits of design create a barrier to greater innovation."[Vincent James, Jennifer Yoos. *VJAA: Vincent James Associates Architects*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2006.]

04. "It is not used solely to build an argument or rationalize form but to disturb our process of design and expose unique social, environmental, and cultural issues embedded in the initial constraints of each project. As a design evolves, we renegotiate its conceptual framework through a process that is inherently fluid, adaptive, and self-critical. We use research to undermine many assumptions about architecture as a discipline, such as the fixity of building type, the hierarchy of facade and entry, the rigid nature of program, and the universal and global character that modern architecture has put into place."[Vincent James, Jennifer Yoos. *VJAA: Vincent James Associates Architects*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2006.]

05. "Today, architecture is being reduced to the practice of “building images. ”60 In a society saturated by images, the aesthetic practice of architecture has increasingly become “photogenic. ” Against this, it should rather become “photographic,” in the sense I elaborated above. From the misguided idea of architecture as “Sign” in its different variations in the 1970s, the discourse of building has merely moved towards another version as “ image-making,” or “hyperbuilding,” conceived as a form of “media. ” The resulting anaestheticization is the consequence of a failure to “reimagine the aesthetic” of building within the paradigm of the new technology."[Hartoonian, Gevork. *Walter Benjamin and architecture*. London, New York: Routledge, 2010.]

06. "Conversely, architecture as a discipline focuses on the permanence of the architectural object and the myth of its perfectability. DeLanda’s synthetic understanding of cities is inherently destabilizing to architecture because it elevates material factors to the same level as cultural production. The current fascination with fluidity may serve as a catalyst toward a new understanding of architectural processes. However, the preoccupation with representations of fluidity as built form restricts us to rigidly conventional architectural discourse."[Vincent James, Jennifer Yoos. *VJAA: Vincent James Associates Architects*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2006.]

07. "My speculation on the relation between architecture and photography is only a step in the direction of a more comprehensive critique of current architectural discourse; its theorization has yet to be taken up in a more comprehensive fashion. If, as Howard Caygill notes, in the most sustained treatment of Benjamin’s speculation on architecture to date, “all experience for Benjamin is technological, since the term technology designates the artificial organization of perception,”61 and if architecture for Benjamin is a “concrete a priori,” or “canonical art form,” and therefore the most effective means to technologically organize experience, then it warrants and indeed requires a media theory."[Hartoonian, Gevork. *Walter Benjamin and architecture*. London, New York: Routledge, 2010.]

08. "Each 36 The Architectural Representation of Reality of those traditions is, in fact, a reinterpretation of one or more pre-existing ones, although patrons and architects often prefer to represent them as new. The connection between this second stratum and an underlying long-cycle tradition is, as one would expect from any representation, not logical but transversal. Before proposing five representational clusters into which to roughly group these shorter-cycle traditions so they become accessible to research, it seems useful to adjust the conventional paradigm of the analysis of worldwide building."[Aart J.J. Mekking, Eric Roose. *The Global Built Environment as a Representation of Realities: Why and How Architecture Should Be the Subject of Worldwide Comparison*. 2009.]

09. "As noted earlier, the three long and five shorter-cycle revolving traditions, however asymmetrical and 44 The Architectural Representation of Reality general they may seem, are constituted to provide precisely that usefulness to every architectural historian interested in analyzing all kinds of architectural traditions. Although they are applicable to every question related to the architecture-representational paradigm, regardless of time and place, they are by no means meant as formulations of ’true universal building principles. ’ The, more or less, distanced and abstract character of the three and five revolving traditions is an inevitable effect of their ‘pre-sorting’ position between the researcher and the innumerable local traditions, recycled on an everyday basis to architecturally represent millions of here and now realities."[Aart J.J. Mekking, Eric Roose. *The Global Built Environment as a Representation of Realities: Why and How Architecture Should Be the Subject of Worldwide Comparison*. 2009.]

10. "By the same token, however, we should guard against reading Benjamin too optimistically as assuming that the anaesthetization and alienation wreaked by technology on the human sensorium could be overcome. 13 Hansen’s last comment is instructive in guarding against the often over-optimistic, and even euphoric, reading of the role of new technology in architecture. It contains an important critical lesson that has yet to be investigated and integrated into the contemporary architectural discourse. Let me close this prologue by setting the terms under which the actuality of Benjamin can be claimed, including the legacy of his “media theory” and its possible implications for architecture as a form of “media. ” I shall return to this point in my afterword."[Hartoonian, Gevork. *Walter Benjamin and architecture*. London, New York: Routledge, 2010.]