Created: 2025-11-02 18:05:08
Origin: searched
Selected: In this sense, Derrida is right to say that “from its ancient beginnings, the most basic concept of architecture has been constructed. ”10 However, why would one not add (and why did Derrida not add) that this concept had beenarchitectured, as is suggested by the lovely formula that insists that there is an “architecture of architecture?” It is not only because the verbarchitecturer—which entered the French language soon after the distinction was made between architects and engineers—has to be handled with caution, signifying (if I am to believe thePetit Robert dictionary) “construire avec rigueur. ” Rather, the reason should be sought on a deeper level, somewhat approaching the heading “architectural culture”: architecture as a fact of culture, culture as inhabited by architecture as much as it inhabits architecture, culture informed by architecture as much as it informs architecture.[Noah’s Ark: Essays on Architecture, Hubert Damisch; Anthony Vidler (ed.), 2016]

--- Context List ---
01. "The method as proposed in this book is not a tool for addressing this gap. However, it juxtaposes perspectives from the fields of architecture and human-computer interaction. By borrowing a set concepts from the field of architecture to discuss and address interactive architecture, we can challenge a set of architecturally rooted concepts from an interaction design perspective in an attempt to refine concepts with roots in both the field of architecture, and in interaction design, i. e. an architectural register for interaction."[Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies, Mikael Wiberg, 2010]

02. "It would be too easy, and overtly repressive, to decide that such developments are anything but architectural. Nonetheless, they certainly challenge the commonplace view of architecture as planning or building for the future. The new modes of producing architecture force us to reconsider to what extent, and no matter what purpose or lack of purpose, the notion—the stage of the “project”—is inherent to architecture, whether built or not. (Similarly, new architectural mediums, new tools, and new machineries of conception force us to reconsider the related concept of “projection. ”) “Paper architecture” has been an integral aspect of architecture since the period ofperspectiva artificialis provided a valid model and tool for both the art of building and that of painting."[Noah’s Ark: Essays on Architecture, Hubert Damisch; Anthony Vidler (ed.), 2016]

03. "Therefore, the applied principles become part of that architecture. This imposes that definitions relating architecture only to the structure of the system would relate to only a part of the architecture. Similar with behavior, architecture makes use of interaction principles to drive the interactions within the system and with its environment to shape behavior as intended. Consequently, if we distinguish between “system”, “architecture” and “architecture description” we need to distinguish between “system description” and “architecture description” as well."[Model-Based System Architecture, T. Weilkiens, J. G. Lamm, S. Roth, M. Walker, 2015]

04. "When looking into any architecture we can notice that any built environment in fact consist of several systems working together in parallel. Still, architecture is not only about the presence and the concrete aspects of building new spaces. On the contrary, architecture is very much about the past, or at least about traditions and history in which new designs can be situated in terms of building genre, trends, époques, etc."[Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies, Mikael Wiberg, 2010]

05. "as an integrated part ranging from a small object, or a room, to a full-blown architecture. xxiii In particular, this book is about these new interactive textures and how these could be used in architecture. As this section has described this is with a focus on architecture in terms of built environments, and not on architecture in terms of “computer architecture”, although such digital architectures of course are a vital aspect in any creation and execution of computer applications."[Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies, Mikael Wiberg, 2010]

06. "In this sense, Derrida is right to say that “from its ancient beginnings, the most basic concept of architecture has been constructed. ”10 However, why would one not add (and why did Derrida not add) that this concept had beenarchitectured, as is suggested by the lovely formula that insists that there is an “architecture of architecture?” It is not only because the verbarchitecturer—which entered the French language soon after the distinction was made between architects and engineers—has to be handled with caution, signifying (if I am to believe thePetit Robert dictionary) “construire avec rigueur. ” Rather, the reason should be sought on a deeper level, somewhat approaching the heading “architectural culture”: architecture as a fact of culture, culture as inhabited by architecture as much as it inhabits architecture, culture informed by architecture as much as it informs architecture."[Noah’s Ark: Essays on Architecture, Hubert Damisch; Anthony Vidler (ed.), 2016]

07. "In our approach to create one such architectural register for interaction, and to start our work on the construction of a method and approach for generating one such semantics we set out to interlink architecture with interaction design through a cycle that start out in the borrowing of a set concepts from the field of architecture to discuss and address interactive architecture (see arrow 1 in Figure 82)."[Interactive Textures for Architecture and Landscaping: Digital Elements and Technologies, Mikael Wiberg, 2010]

08. "Relating architecture with principles confirms the qualitative description that architecture includes everything that is difficult or expensive to change later in the development. Emes et al. conclude in “Interpreting ‘Systems Architecting’ ” [36], that a single-sentence expression of a root definition is hardly sufficient to cover the diverse viewpoints relating to many domains when defining “architect”. This conclusion holds true for the definition of “system architecture” as well. Modeling the definition of system architecture together with the related definitions ensures consistency and may enable understanding between involved domains."[Model-Based System Architecture, T. Weilkiens, J. G. Lamm, S. Roth, M. Walker, 2015]

09. "Hence the challenge for the composer, who refrains from making use of all the resources of his art until they are developed in Valéry’s story of Amphion’s touch. The same is true for architecture, which at first was to be presented more as a simple exercise of movements and combinations than of structure or composition. In the same way that music retrospectively reflects itself in its own architecture, architecture projects itself in its own generative, not to say musical, process."[Noah’s Ark: Essays on Architecture, Hubert Damisch; Anthony Vidler (ed.), 2016]

10. "Our findings of the perceived contributions are mostly consistent with those discussed in the literature. Some deviations, however, were found as follows. We identified a new category, reflection, which is not mentioned in the literature directly as a possible benefit from architecture review. The reflection guides architects to improve the architecture as a preparation for the review, leading them to scrutinize their architecture document and thinking about things they may neglect otherwise."[Advanced Information Systems Engineering Workshops: CAiSE 2011 International Workshops, London, UK, June 20-24, 2011. Proceedings, Birger Andersson, Irina Rychkova, Gianluigi Viscusi (auth.), Camille Salinesi, Oscar Pastor (eds.), 2011]