Created: 2025-11-25 01:22:13
Origin: searched
Selected: I couldn’t remember the last time I had held anyone like this. “Are you awake?” I whispered, after a long time. “Yeah,” Cassie said. We lay very still. I could feel the air around us changing, blooming and shimmering like the air over a scorching road. My heart was speeding, or hers was banging against my chest, I’m not sure. I turned Cassie in my arms and kissed her, and after a moment she kissed me back. I know I said that I always choose the anticlimactic over the irrevocable, and yes of course what I meant was that I have always been a coward, but I lied: not always, there was that night, there was that one time.[French, Tana *In the Woods*. Reprint. 2008.]

--- Context List ---
01. "A warm, slightly bruised and tender feeling reminded her of the night before, the secret hours in Sean’s arms before Red had brought the children back. Though their time was limited, she had been well and thoroughly loved, and memories pulsed through her, touching off signal fires in hidden places. Last night had been a revelation. A dream. An ecstasy that was softer and sweeter than a dozen Devil Dogs. Sean Maguire, she thought, letting his name drift through her mind like an unforgettable song. Sean Maguire."[Wiggs, Susan *Table for Five*. Mira, 2006.]

02. "The last night they’d spent together at Arden Street—the night he’d told her about his past—he’d felt something kindle deep within himself. Something 406 Jennifer Donnelly bright and warm and perilously fragile. It was a feeling. One he’d lived without for years. One he’d forgotten. But one he still recognized. It was hope. India had made him believe again. In new beginnings. In forgiveness and redemption. In the possibility of love. She’d healed his heart that night as surely as she’d healed his body months ago."[Donnelly, Jennifer *The Winter Rose*. Reprint. Hyperion, 2009.]

03. "I couldn’t remember the last time I had held anyone like this. “Are you awake?” I whispered, after a long time. “Yeah,” Cassie said. We lay very still. I could feel the air around us changing, blooming and shimmering like the air over a scorching road. My heart was speeding, or hers was banging against my chest, I’m not sure. I turned Cassie in my arms and kissed her, and after a moment she kissed me back. I know I said that I always choose the anticlimactic over the irrevocable, and yes of course what I meant was that I have always been a coward, but I lied: not always, there was that night, there was that one time."[French, Tana *In the Woods*. Reprint. 2008.]

04. "“You bit my nose. ” “Serves you right,” said Cassie. More low laughter, a rustle, a kiss; a long contented sigh. Sam said, soft and happy, “Baby. ” Then nothing but their breathing, easing into tandem and slowing gradually back into sleep. I sat there for a very long time, watching the sky lighten outside my window and realizing that my name hadn’t come up on Cassie’s mobile. I could feel the vodka working its way out of my blood; the headache was starting to kick in. Sam snored, very gently. I never knew, not then, not now, whether Cassie thought she had hung up, or whether she wanted to hurt me, or whether she wanted to give me one last gift, one last night listening to her breathe."[French, Tana *In the Woods*. Reprint. 2008.]

05. "She didn’t feel like herself at all, like super-organized, goal-driven Lily Robinson. She felt like Carmen, like Delilah, like…Cleopatra. All right, she thought, so maybe she didn’t know what to do next. Today, Sean would have a round of interviews and appearances, with everything arranged by Red. Lily wanted to make herself scarce, to savor her feelings in private. She lay very still, alone in her bed, listening, wondering what it would be like to sleep all night in Sean’s arms. No one else seemed to be up."[Wiggs, Susan *Table for Five*. Mira, 2006.]

06. "They lay in the sunshine filtering through the open curtains for a long time afterward, a tangle of limbs and shed clothes. The window let in the warm morning air, the acrid smell of smoke and crushed eucalyptus. Charlie’s fingers idly moved in patterns around Beattie’s left shoulder as she listened to the thump of his heart under his hard chest. “I need to tell you something, Beattie,” he said, his voice gruff from lack of sleep and smoke. “Go on,” she said. “I’ve been in love with you a long time. ” She smiled, though he couldn’t see her face."[Freeman, Kimberley *Wildflower Hill*. Reprint. Touchstone, 2011.]

07. "I poured myself some brandy and stretched out on the sofa bed, going over the day's events from morning to night. It felt like an awfully long day. The room continued to glow white in the moonlight. Aside from the occasional slight creak of a bed, hardly a sound came from the bedroom where Naoko and Reiko lay sleeping. Tiny diagrammatic shapes seemed to float in the darkness when I closed my eyes, and my ears sensed the lingering reverberation of Reiko's guitar, but neither of these lasted for long."[Murakami, Haruki *Norwegian Wood*. Vintage, 2000.]

08. "We went to a spot far down the coast, and came back the same evening, exhausted. Nothing special happened on the way, but I remembered it well. The sharp autumn wind moaned in my ears, and looking up at the sky, my hands clutching Kizuki's jacket, I felt as if I might be swept into outer space. I lay there for a long time, letting my mind wander from one memory to another. For some strange reason, lying in this room seemed to bring back old memories that I had rarely if ever recalled before."[Murakami, Haruki *Norwegian Wood*. Vintage, 2000.]

09. "That place. That dog. Why was she back there?Never mind, scratch that. She knew why. The bed beside her was cold and empty. Greg had left a note: “Thought it was better for you two to sleep. Rough night. ” It was nearly 9 a. m. , an epic sleep-in by current standards. It had been a rough night, Lily waking twice, emitting suddenly and inexplicably that high-pitched wail perfected by babies everywhere to fry each nerve ending in their exhausted mothers’ bodies. Rain had nursed Lily back to sleep once, then paced the hallway for what seemed like hours after the baby woke a second time."[Unger, Lisa *The Stranger Inside*. 2019.]

10. "All these people had come back into my life for one night. I didn’t want to cry, but I was pretty sure I was going to; I could feel myself starting to dissolve like a tissue in a cloudburst. “Open it, Daddy!” Ilse said. I could smell her perfume, something sweet and fresh. “Open it!Open it!” Good-natured voices from the packed circle watching us. I opened the box. Pulled out some white tissue paper and uncovered what I had expected… although I had expected something jokey, and this was no joke."[King, Stephen *Duma Key*. Reprint. Pocket, 2008.]

11. "At least I hoped it was. As far as I could tell, I was back on track to having it all. What I didn't have, I thought on Thanksgiving Day while recovering from a gravy overdose on my parents' couch, was a time machine that could catapult me forward to the next party. I couldn't wait to see Nate. I couldn't wait to get him back. And when I did, maybe I'd spend some time hanging around Helen's apartment, harassing her into awkward conversations. Maybe I'd embarrass her in public by throwing her at random men, the better to suggest that she was incapable of finding one on her own."[Crane, Megan *Frenemies*. Grand Central Publishing, 2007.]

12. "Laila knew exactly how he felt. She gave him a nothing-to-be-done shrug. They took the vacant seats and placed their order with the immediately attentive waiter. “Having a good time in Ireland, Matthew?” Trace inquired politely, though his voice was cool. “Excellent,” Matthew responded stiffly. Abby laughed. “What he really wants to know is whether you and Laila are having a good time,” she said. Laila jumped in. “We’re both having a perfectly wonderful time. Now maybe we ought to change the subject. ” The arrival of their food gave her time to study her sister-in-law’s face."[Woods, Sherryl *An O'Brien Family Christmas*. MIRA, 2011.]

13. "Of course Mel was busy. She had always been busy. The day after Shelby and Luke’s baby arrived, she tried sleeping late, but that didn’t work out. She went to the clinic and saw a few patients. There was a callout from a rancher who was having chest pains—she and Cameron left the clinic to attend to him. They transported him to the hospital and the whole emergency took a long time; Mel was late getting home. She was due a real deep sleep, but Emma didn’t feel well. She and Jack were up during the night changing pajamas, diapers, sheets, and Jack said, “I hope to hell whatever this is doesn’t go through the whole family. ” It was the weekend before things seemed to calm down."[Carr, Robyn *Moonlight Road*. 2010.]

14. "She came to pity him not at all. And in very short order. She had been with Cal the night Greg took the company on that overnight march. It was the first time they had been together most of a night. There had been much talk and understanding. And much love-making. Before noon of the following day with B Company on the march back, Cal had come to her and told her that his name was posted on the bulletin board for shipment overseas with another division."[Colby, Robert *The Captain Must Die*. Wildside Press, 2003.]

15. "“I remember thinking on the way to the hospital that the real stuff of parenting is in the details, the day-to-day,” said Sandy. “I felt like a failure for having to work when other women could stay home. ” “You were never a failure. ” But Sandy’s gaze had grown distant. She was back there, and Rain felt a spasm of regret for having opened this door into the past. “The day is a blur after that,” she said softly. “Until the call came. The rest of that day and night, the week, and the year after, her missing, her found, the funeral, the trial—well, it’s every parent’s nightmare, isn’t it?"[Unger, Lisa *The Stranger Inside*. 2019.]