Created: 2025-11-07 12:27:49
Origin: suggested
Selected: Configuration becomes the inscription of an enduring object. He also transposes the notions of concordance and discordance, so central to his analysis of narrative, to architectural use of “irregular regularities. ”15 The architect has the same intention of discordant coherence that the narrator does in composing a story. Similarly, like a fictional work, an architectural work is a “polyphonic message. ” The phenomenon of inter-textuality applies to space also, namely the “reservoir of edifices” that provide the context for new buildings.[(eds.), Bruce B. Janz *Place, Space and Hermeneutics*. Springer International Publishing, 2017.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Configuration becomes the inscription of an enduring object. He also transposes the notions of concordance and discordance, so central to his analysis of narrative, to architectural use of “irregular regularities. ”15 The architect has the same intention of discordant coherence that the narrator does in composing a story. Similarly, like a fictional work, an architectural work is a “polyphonic message. ” The phenomenon of inter-textuality applies to space also, namely the “reservoir of edifices” that provide the context for new buildings."[(eds.), Bruce B. Janz *Place, Space and Hermeneutics*. Springer International Publishing, 2017.]

02. "Contents Introduction Breaking Boundaries: Towards a Global Theory of Architectural Representation Eric Roose Chapter 1 The Architectural Representation of Reality: The Built Environment as the Materialization of a Mental Construct Aart Mekking Chapter 2 The Architectural Representation of Islam: Saintly Brilliance in the New Design for the Amsterdam Taibah Mosque Eric Roose Chapter 3 The Architectural Representation of Paradise: Sufi Cosmology and the Four-ı̄wān Plan Elena Paskaleva Chapter 4 The Architectural Representation of Taboo: Toilet Taboos as Guardians of Old Taiwanese Representations of Family Life En-Yu Huang Chapter 5 The Architectural Representation of Diversity: Changing Scopes to Meet Changing Realities in The Hague’s Transvaal Neighbourhood Aart Mekking 7 23 51 95 141 173 List of Contributors 207 Classified Index 209 5 Introduction Breaking Boundaries: Towards a Global Theory of Architectural Representation Eric Roose In a world that is growing smaller by the day, we are left with architectural tools that no longer suffice for the description, the interpretation, and certainly not the creation of a built environment that holds the increasingly diverse communities within today’s complex social situations."[Aart J.J. Mekking, Eric Roose *The Global Built Environment as a Representation of Realities: Why and How Architecture Should Be the Subject of Worldwide Comparison*. 2009.]

03. "Because Harries’ notion of natural symbols offers a hermeneutical means to locate broad lived qualities of architectural meaning expressed dialectically, one is provided one heuristic structure for locating the experience of buildings-in-themselves—the unique shadings of architectural presence and ambience evoked by particular combinations of specific natural symbols. Harries’ language provides one interpretive possibility for bypassing experiential accounts as they are grounded in the pre-reflective, unthematized attention of user lifeworlds and natural attitudes that Jones emphasizes in his accounts of ritual-architectural events. Harries offers an interpretation of architecture whereby the text—architecture-as-experienced-and-understood-viaexpression-of-particular-natural-symbols—can more precisely and completely reveal itself. In relation to Wachterhauser’s four guidelines for trustworthy interpretation, one can make the following claims for Harries’ language of natural symbols: 1."[(eds.), Bruce B. Janz *Place, Space and Hermeneutics*. Springer International Publishing, 2017.]

04. "Edinburgh: Floris. Davey, N. 1999. The Hermeneutics of Seeing. In Interpreting Visual Culture, ed. I. Heywood and B. Sandywell, 3–29. London: Routledge. Gadamer, H. -G. 1989. Truth and Method. London: Sheed and Ward. Hale, J. A. 2000. Building Ideas: An Introduction to Architectural Theory, 213–224. New York: Wiley. Harries, K. 1988. Voices of Space. Center 4: 34–39. ———. 1993. Thoughts on a Non-arbitrary Architecture. In Dwelling, Seeing and Designing, ed. D. Seamon, 41–60. Albany: State University of New York Press. ———."[(eds.), Bruce B. Janz *Place, Space and Hermeneutics*. Springer International Publishing, 2017.]

05. "Fundamental to this distanciation is architecture’s internalization of technique through recollection of the tectonic. What this entails is that a discussion of ‘image’, as one consequence of the introduction of mediatic technologies into architectural discipline, although it has proliferated diverse and innovative approaches to design, nevertheless dismisses the culture of building, thus putting limitations on the scope of criticism. To speak of the tectonic relationship between column and wall, for example, does not mean to dismiss the perceptual realm offered by the mediatic technologies."[Hartoonian, Gevork *Walter Benjamin and architecture*. London, New York: Routledge, 2010.]

06. "Each 36 The Architectural Representation of Reality of those traditions is, in fact, a reinterpretation of one or more pre-existing ones, although patrons and architects often prefer to represent them as new. The connection between this second stratum and an underlying long-cycle tradition is, as one would expect from any representation, not logical but transversal. Before proposing five representational clusters into which to roughly group these shorter-cycle traditions so they become accessible to research, it seems useful to adjust the conventional paradigm of the analysis of worldwide building."[Aart J.J. Mekking, Eric Roose *The Global Built Environment as a Representation of Realities: Why and How Architecture Should Be the Subject of Worldwide Comparison*. 2009.]

07. "Conversely, architecture as a discipline focuses on the permanence of the architectural object and the myth of its perfectability. DeLanda’s synthetic understanding of cities is inherently destabilizing to architecture because it elevates material factors to the same level as cultural production. The current fascination with fluidity may serve as a catalyst toward a new understanding of architectural processes. However, the preoccupation with representations of fluidity as built form restricts us to rigidly conventional architectural discourse."[Vincent James, Jennifer Yoos *VJAA: Vincent James Associates Architects*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2006.]

08. "A contemporary building is increasingly heterogeneous and likely to include materials and systems from three or more continents. When architectural innovation is confined to the image of a building, new technologies or materials are limited to their decorative effects. If our ideas about architecture remain fluid, then buildings can continually be reconceived relative to changing problems or conditions. While new technologies are starting to erode the limitations of standardization and enable more fluid and adaptive responses to material fabrication, our social and cultural habits of design create a barrier to greater innovation."[Vincent James, Jennifer Yoos *VJAA: Vincent James Associates Architects*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2006.]

09. "Ultimately, the architectural languages of Jones, Harries, and Thiis-Evensen are all provocative hermeneutical explications. They demonstrate the prolific interpretive possibilities that a text—in this case, architecture—offers. They demonstrate that, as with any hermeneutical project, the understanding of any text is multivalent, always underway, and never complete. The work of these three architectural thinkers is inspiring and motivates researchers to forge other innovative hermeneutic renditions of architectural expression, experience, and meaning. References Alexander, C. 2002–2005. The Nature of Order, 4 vols. Berkeley: Center for Environmental Structure. Assefa, E. M. , and D. Seamon. 2007. Karsten Harries’ Natural Symbols as a Means for Interpreting Architecture: Inside and Outside in Frank Lloyd Wright’s Fallingwater and Alvar Aalto’s Villa Mairea. Wolkenkuckucksheim 12(1): 1–7. Bortoft, H. 1996. The Wholeness of Nature. Edinburgh: Floris. ———. 2012. Taking Appearance Seriously."[(eds.), Bruce B. Janz *Place, Space and Hermeneutics*. Springer International Publishing, 2017.]

10. "The pleasure of architecture is granted when architecture fulfils one’s spatial expectations, as well  as embodying architectural ideas or concepts, with  intelligence and invention There is also a special  pleasure to be mentioned: the pleasure that results  from conflicts, when the sensual pleasure of space  conflicts with the pleasure of order. The architecture of pleasure lies where conceptual  and spatial paradoxes merge in the middle of  delight, where architectural language breaks into a  thousand pieces, where the elements of architecture are dismantled and its rules transgressed.  Typologies,  morphologies,  spatial  compressions,  logical constructions - all dissolve. Representa-  i7  tion then equals abstraction, as they collide in a ™  staged and necessary conflict: repetition, discontinuity, cliches and neologisms. "[INPUT: Tschumi__The_Manhattan_Transcripts.pdf]