Created: 2025-12-30 01:42:23
Origin: searched
Selected: Le Corbusier decided to place different types of glass in these openings: clear glass, coloured glass, and glass painted with simple motifs, some of which bear inscriptions of praise to the Holy Virgin. The architect’s decision to use clear glass and to splash only a few precise places with touches of colour corresponds to his wish to keep a tight rein on the use of light – a primordial element in the definition of the interior volumes. The colours employed are the same as those for the door: blue, red, yellow, green and violet.[Pauly, Daniele *Le Corbusier: the Chapel at Ronchamp*. Birkhäuser Architecture, 2008.]

--- Context List ---
01. "To block out an undesirable view, use a stained glass panel the size of the window; to focus attention on the view, select a rectangular or curved stained glass frame around clear glass. Clear glass mixed at random with colored glass in a single panel gives a feeling of depth . A glass bird or foliage pattern complements house plants or enriches a garden view. If your window has many small panes, consider replacing only a pane or two for a colorful splash of light. For a room with a double-hung or horizontally sliding window, you can create an especially rich feeling by designing each sash with different colors."[*Windows & skylights* Menlo Park, Calif: Lane Pub. Co, 1982.]

02. "Beveled Glass Doors Stained glass window Glass blocks are used in a window that separates rooms. Block Glass Window Panel Try glass blocks instead of a room screen or etched glass to create a view. This option is definitely a unique way to set your windows apart from the average, while still providing privacy. [page 95] Windows Treatments Made Simple 11. 5 Matching Hard Window Treatments to Your Decorating Style!Traditional – Go with fabric textured horizontal blinds or balloon, pleated or fabric roll shades."[M.K., Makridakis, and Holland M. *How to Create Rooms of Radiance. Windows Treatments Made Simple*. 2003.]

03. "The polished surface receives the gaze and, through its invisibility, reﬂects ﬂeeting glimpses of the “other,” much like a mirror. Even with perfectly clear glass, the extent of this view is bounded because most glass panels require a frame. The neutral frame isolates the glass and what may be seen through it from its context (Ortega y Gassett 1986: 24). The frame turns the view into a “picture” and alters the nature of the spectator’s gaze. In an essay called “Fear of Glass: The Barcelona Pavilion,” the author says that glass allows eternal special currents to ﬂow through space (Quetglas 2001)."[Yglesias, Caren *The Innovative Use of Materials in Architecture and Landscape Architecture: History, Theory and Performance*. McFarland, 2014.]

04. "When appropriately framed, stained glass can add a beautiful appearance and works well with windows receiving a lot of light. Not only is a glass treatment pure joy from an artistic point of view, but it also presents additional possibilities for some people as well. Glass panels are perfect for behind garden tubs in the bathroom, or on patios for privacy. While previously used to primarily enhance windows and doors, contemporary home designers are using stained glass to enhance and create entire spaces in homes."[M.K., Makridakis, and Holland M. *How to Create Rooms of Radiance. Windows Treatments Made Simple*. 2003.]

05. "See page 21 for more information on skylight glazing . (Continued on page 20) STAINED GLASS A COLORFUL ALTERNATIVE Elegant, nostalgic, and colorfuL stained glass can turn a window into a work of art. With its combinations of hues and patterns and with the changing light of day, stained glass can liven up any room. Even after dark, you can turn on the room lights and enjoy the translucent tapestry of stained glass from your patio or garden. Depending on its design, a stained glass window can also provide privacy both at night and duringthe day."[*Windows & skylights* Menlo Park, Calif: Lane Pub. Co, 1982.]

06. "The window was assimilated into the façade-skin, losing  its autonomy as an element. The window as a device that selects a view on the  outside was sacrificed to achieve abundant light inside or total transparency  to the outside. The glass-brick façade of Chareau's Maison de Verre in Paris  is an apotheosis of the first desire,9 while Philip Johnson's Glass House was  conceived as a perfect embodiment of the second, and both had an immediate  and wide circulation in the architectural press."[INPUT: window.pdf]

07. "The fascination which glass inspires in designers is explained by its aesthetics and functions. Its transparency, affording both light and vision yet imposing separation and even isolation worth appreciating. It can, do the very opposite as well. Glass can form building’s envelope as opaque as stone, reflecting images and allowing light to reach the interior, without compromising vision through to the exterior. Glass can also provide a delicate covering that softens a building’s mass, or indeed accentuate it, by simply reflecting both light and the surrounding environment."[Garg, N.K. *Guidelines for Use of Glass in Buildings*. New Age Publications (Academic), 2007.]

08. "Multiple glazing is particularly effective in reducing the U-value but penalises the light transmission; every extra sheet of clear glass reduces the transmittance by 15-20% (see section 2. 3. 2 and appendix A1. 1). Reductions in glass transmittance not only reduce light transmitted into the room but may also affect the qualities of view. The multiple reflections on glass surfaces in multi-glazed windows could distract observers. Please replace with new slide. Make image 117 mm deep, and adjust width of pic box (on left side) up to a maximum of 94 mm so includes all of image."[Engineers, Chartered Institute of Building Services *Daylighting and Window Design (CIBSE Lighting Guide)*. Chartered Institution of Building Services Engineers, 1999.]

09. "Decorative Enhancers Enhancers, such as decorative arches constructed of wrought iron or stained glass, provide a pretty look. • Advantages: A unique way to treat a window, enhancements will play with entering light, filtering and reflecting rays and creating patterns across a room. • Disadvantages: Usually for decoration only. While some stained glass treatments will filter light, most decorative enhancers are for beauty only. Leather Like traditional fabric, leather is adaptable, pliable and also an unusual look at the window."[Stoehr, Kathleen S., and Charles T. Randall *The Window Decorating Book*. Charles Randall, Inc., 2009.]

10. "A robust glass technology was available to fill this need in dramatic fashion. Glass was available only in small pieces, but craftsmen had learned the recipes for producing many color variations. The window makers developed a structural system comprised of leaded bars that were used to tie a mosaic of pieces into a single membrane of glass veined with lead and capable of spanning large openings. These expansive stained-glass windows represent an early precursor to SGFs. Similarly, the morphology of the structural masonry frames with glass Chapter 1: Context: Glass and Structure Figure 1. 1 ​Comcast Center, Philadelphia, 2008, Robert A. M. Stern architect."[Patterson, Mic *Structural Glass Facades and Enclosures : a Vocabulary of Transparency*. Chichester: John Wiley & Sons, 2011.]

11. "For a Roman shade, purchase one that covers the molding, plus a few inches on either side. To downplay an overpowering window such as sliding glass doors, a bay window, or a plate-glass wall, mount one rod across the top of the molding and hang several curtain panels (that are as wide as possible), to break up the expanse. To disguise a poor view mount a sheer scrim inside the window casement, hanging close to the glass."[Mayhew, Elizabeth *Flip! for Decorating  A Page-by-Page, Piece-by-Piece, Room-by-Room Guide to Transforming Your Home*. Ballantine Books, 2009.]

12. "Two sheets of glass with a transparent plastic sheet sandwiched between them to form a pane resistant to shattering. Sheet Glass Sec window glass. Shim A small wedgelike device, typically a piece of an exterior wood shingle, which tightens the fit between two separate building elements. Show Window A window for display of goods. See also cabinet window. Shutter A frame assembly mounted on a window supporting a panel that shuts out light or view from a window opening; originally for protection, then decoration, and now energy conservation."[York, New *Repairing Old and Historic Windows: A Manual for Architects and Homeowners*. Washington, D.C: Preservation Press, National Trust for Historic Preservation, 1992.]

13. "1210-15 produce small tiles of glass, bonded a pattern that reflects but Although invention, stained glass owes The arrangement to a base structure such as stone, to does not transmit light. The process of making transparent stained glass matured during the Middle Ages, when the windows were great stained-glass first most stained glass served century, change in a religious purpose, but Tiffany helped to new genres of stained glass, such as landscapes, windows made up the vast majority of Tiffany's commis- stained glass."[Warmus, William *The Essential Louis Comfort Tiffany*. Harry N. Abrams, Inc., 2001.]

14. "Glass as Window The emergence of glass in window applications is attributed to the Roman imperial period. Window glass was first used in isolated applications, such as in the public baths to reduce air drafts. Early window glass was rather crude and unevenly translucent, as the techniques for producing transparent glass products were yet to be developed. Glass at this point was not about providing transparency or a view; it was most likely used for security and insulation from the exterior environment and for natural lighting."[Patterson, Mic *Structural Glass Facades and Enclosures : a Vocabulary of Transparency*. Chichester: John Wiley & Sons, 2011.]

15. "As in most of Maeda’s designs, glass plays an integral role both in distributing and modulating light and in dividing space. As he puts it, “glass is the skin of the house” and this transparent wall provides natural lighting for the entire house. Only on the top level, where the main bedroom is located, is there a north-facing window in addition. A translucent glass panel on the mezzanine, above the living room, gives privacy but also light to the young daughter’s bedroom. On the top level, the walls of the bathroom are also of glass, and, as well as being partitions, act as a window for the bedroom."[Nose, Michiko Rico, and Michael Freeman *Japan modern: new ideas for contemporary living*. Periplus Editions (HK) ltd., 2005.]

16. "Le Corbusier decided to place different types of glass in these openings: clear glass, coloured glass, and glass painted with simple motifs, some of which bear inscriptions of praise to the Holy Virgin. The architect’s decision to use clear glass and to splash only a few precise places with touches of colour corresponds to his wish to keep a tight rein on the use of light – a primordial element in the definition of the interior volumes. The colours employed are the same as those for the door: blue, red, yellow, green and violet."[Pauly, Daniele *Le Corbusier: the Chapel at Ronchamp*. Birkhäuser Architecture, 2008.]

17. "Sec also glazing compound. Quarrel A diamond-shaped or square glass piece set diagonally; a medieval term for small panes of glass set diagonally in Gothic windows. Sec also lattice window. Quarry Glass A square glass piece set diagonally. Quarter A square panel. Rabbet Also glazing rabbet. A two-sided, L-shaped recess in sash or frame to receive lights or panels. When no stop or molding is added, such rabbets are face glazed. Adding a removable stop produces a three-sided U-shaped channel. Rabbetted Joint The joint formed by two boards with rahhettcd ends, as in some window frames."[York, New *Repairing Old and Historic Windows: A Manual for Architects and Homeowners*. Washington, D.C: Preservation Press, National Trust for Historic Preservation, 1992.]

18. "Also called photovoltaic or PV electricity. glossary 155 SPECTRALLY SELECTIVE GLASS Window glass that has been treated with a special coating or tint that allows visible light to pass into the home, but that blocks much ot the sun's heat from entering through the window. THERMAL MASS The ability of a material to absorb and retain heat."[Roberts, Jennifer *Good Green Homes*. Gibbs Smith, 2003.]

19. "In southern climates, double-glazed tinted glass (C) reduces heat transfer. Tempered (or “safety”) glass (D) has extra strength for use in patio doors, storm doors, and large picture windows. Whatever the type of framing or glass in your window, the pane can be one piece or divided into smaller panes by muntins. True muntins actually hold individual pieces of glass, while snap-on muntins can be easily removed for cleaning the glass or to change the look of the window. Window & Door Inspection Tips Here are a few things to look for when you inspect your new window or door before you begin the installation: • Hardware is sturdy and all pieces are present."[coll. *The Complete Guide to Windows & Entryways*. Cool Springs Press, 2008.]

20. "3. 2. 5 Selectivity in T ropical Countries Tropical Light Transmission needs to be optimized so as to avoid glare and minimize artificial illumination. It mainly depends on use of buildings. Retail / shopping areas may require maximizing light transmission due to higher visibility whereas software parks may require minimizing light transmission to reduce glare. Glass needs to transmit true colour, which means the colour of light transmitted through the glass should be close to that of light through the clear glass."[Garg, N.K. *Guidelines for Use of Glass in Buildings*. New Age Publications (Academic), 2007.]

21. "3 1 1 6 4 2 1 3 3 9 3 8 4 6 2 6 Horizontal and vertical sections 1:20. Verticallyset glass channels used as window MCH_ 138 4 7 7 3D view showing glass blocks within masonry wall The relatively poor thermal insulation of glass blocks and cast channels, when compared to double glazed units, can lead to condensation occurring on the interior face of the block, and adequate ventilation is required to avoid this. Consequently, their use remains ideally suited to semi-external conditions in temperate climates, such as circulation spaces."[Watts, Andrew *Modern Construction Handbook*. Ambra Verlag, 2013.]

22. "1936 Berghof estate, Bavaria Hochtief AG. 2010 Trump Soho,  New York, Handel  Architects,  Rockwell Group. 2012 Abraj Al-Bait  Towers, Saudi Arabia,  SL Rasch GmbH and  Dar Al-Handasah  Architects. 2017 Elbphilharmonie,  Hamburg, Herzog &  de Meuron. 1969 IBM Building, Chicago,  Mies van der Rohe. WINDOW VS. GLASS Glass, which initially seemed the perfect partner for the window -  transparent,  flat strong -  overwhelmed the window during the 20th century, culminating  in the curtain wall. Advances in glass technology allow many of the former  accoutrements of the window -  shading devices, bars for security, handles  with which to open the window -  to be internalized in the glass itself, or made  or discarded entirely. Glass takes on new roles beyond providing light:  it controls solar gain, radiation, insulation, generates energy, conveys digitized  information. . . "[INPUT: window.pdf]

23. "Glass has become invisible. Thus, the inherent properties of glass, along with its technical capabilities, allow designers to choose the degree of material presence of glass. 82 The Innovative Use of Materials in Architecture and Landscape Architecture Glass can “reﬂect, bend, transmit, and absorb light” (Bell 2006: 14). Manipulating these inherent characteristics of reﬂectance, transmittance and absorbency alters the experience of light through glass. Glass windows and enclosures fracture sensory experience into distinct perceptions."[Yglesias, Caren *The Innovative Use of Materials in Architecture and Landscape Architecture: History, Theory and Performance*. McFarland, 2014.]

24. "For some special purposes the aluminium may be placed on 106 PROCESSED GLASS the front surface of the mirror. Glass can be made to reflect part of the visible light and to transmit another part. This type of glass will act as a mirror when looking at it from a light to a darker room. The transmission is quite good, however, when looking at it from the dark room. Metallized glasses for building purposes are described in Sections 5. 6 and 9. 8."[(auth.), Rune Persson *Flat Glass Technology*. Springer US, 1969.]

25. "In general, it can be said that the transmittance through sheet glass, plate glass and float glass is approximately 85-90% in the visible region of the spectrum. Rough cast glass transmits approximately 80% and ornamental glass 70--85 %, depending on the pattern. By special mechanical or chemical surface treatments it is possible to obtain glass giving reduced glare effects from lighting points. The surfaces of the glass are lightly textured and therefore give a 'diffuse' reflection."[(auth.), Rune Persson *Flat Glass Technology*. Springer US, 1969.]