Created: 2025-12-19 15:15:27
Origin: suggested
Selected: Architects design by translating concepts into two dimensional graphics that which ultimately imply a multidimensional future reality. He or she tests the horizontal and vertical space finding accommodation and commonality of adjacency, connectivity and inclusiveness. It is the commonplace and not the abstract necessity that communicates more readily. The architect is challenged to imbue in the design a more subtle analogy than the obvious. [35] The “interaction view” of metaphor where metaphors work by applying to the principle (literal) subject of the metaphor a system of “associated implications” characteristic of the metaphorical secondary subject.[Fez-Barringten, Barie, and Edward Hart *Architecture: The Making of Metaphors*. Cambridge Scholars Publishing, 2012.]

--- Context List ---
01. "Architects design by translating concepts into two dimensional graphics that which ultimately imply a multidimensional future reality. He or she tests the horizontal and vertical space finding accommodation and commonality of adjacency, connectivity and inclusiveness. It is the commonplace and not the abstract necessity that communicates more readily. The architect is challenged to imbue in the design a more subtle analogy than the obvious. [35] The “interaction view” of metaphor where metaphors work by applying to the principle (literal) subject of the metaphor a system of “associated implications” characteristic of the metaphorical secondary subject."[Fez-Barringten, Barie, and Edward Hart *Architecture: The Making of Metaphors*. Cambridge Scholars Publishing, 2012.]

02. "After introducing the general cause and effect of ideas and metaphors, I present specific cause and effect relationships between the technical architectural tools such as programs, drawings, models and contracts as well as the conceptual metaphoric tools of analogies, ideas, and culture. Then I describe how designs begin and how the processes of designing result in individual designs."[Fez-Barringten, Barie, and Edward Hart *Architecture: The Making of Metaphors*. Cambridge Scholars Publishing, 2012.]

03. "Who’s arguing?How does resolving that architecture is the making of metaphors settle the argument?Through analogies, similes and evidence, I present arguments supporting the resolutions surrounding the way architects and urban designers make metaphors. This is done by presenting the thinking on making both natural and synthetic cities as well as the design of buildings and neighborhoods. Cited throughout are linguistic, cognitive, psychological and philosophical mechanisms of the metaphor and their applicability."[Fez-Barringten, Barie, and Edward Hart *Architecture: The Making of Metaphors*. Cambridge Scholars Publishing, 2012.]

04. "This will to architecture is the foundation of Western thought. In my own work I could not simply deny this will. M y thinking developed as follows: I assumed as a premise that a consistently critical attitude would reveal its own ungroundedness and thus reveal its own becoming; only persistent formalization o r construction, I realized, would lead to the exteriority of form. T o critique constructionism, however, requires more than simply invoking becoming. Becoming, or, to use Marx's term, "grown-by-nature-ness" (Natwmiichsigkeit),' is not so for~nlessor chaotic as it seems, but is rather something that can be formally demonstrated."[Karatani, Kojin, and Sabu Kohso *Architecture as Metaphor: Language, Number, Money (Writing Architecture)*. The MIT Press, 1995.]

05. "Arata Isozaki On the English Edition of Architecture as Metaphor Architecture as Metaphor is Karatani's most resolute attempt to confront the metaphysical mechanism that has tacitly normalized the intellectual practices of the West ever since Plato's time. By an exhaustive analysis of the ways in which architecture as metaphor pervades our thinking in various domains-philosophy, literature, city planning, linguistics, cultural anthropology, political economy, psychoanalysis, and mathematicsthis book means to undermine the overcharged and even perverse Translator's Remarks constraining power of the figure of "architecture as metaphor. ""[Karatani, Kojin, and Sabu Kohso *Architecture as Metaphor: Language, Number, Money (Writing Architecture)*. The MIT Press, 1995.]

06. "14 Transitional/Translational Spaces: Evocative Objects … 329 I suggest that cultural artefacts may be approached reflexively via multiple forms of aesthetic engagement (by writing, drawing, moving, etc. ), activating an “imaginal mode” of the psyche (Heron 1992: 16–17): through presentational knowing (Heron 1996) new artefacts are created that “carry the weight of the real” (Bollas 2009: 84, my italics) into our knowing process. 11 A further advantage of this approach is inclusion, because when socially-valued cultural objects are drawn on through emotional engagement and embodiment, greater playfulness is encouraged: between insiders and outsiders (to the professional context), and so-called experts and non-experts (in a hierarchy of knowledge relations), as well as within the self (Winnicott 1971, 1965)."[Campbell, Madeleine, and Ricarda Vidal *Translating across Sensory and Linguistic Borders: Intersemiotic Journeys between Media*. Springer International Publishing,Palgrave Macmillan, 2019.]

07. "Such affordances are closely tied to material artifacts and the built environment. The second type, “conventional affordances” are “possibilities for action, the engagement with which depends on agents’ skillfully leveraging explicit or implicit expectations, norms, conventions, and cooperative social practices”. In this regard the notion of affordance space or affordance landscape is a useful conceptual tool. We can define changes in affordance space (Brincker 2014; Gallagher 2015) or the landscape of affordances (Rietveld and Kiverstein 2014) as changes in the range of possibilities provided by any active movement in body or change in (physical, social, cultural) environment."[Hünefeldt, Thomas, and Annika Schlitte *Situatedness and Place: Multidisciplinary Perspectives on the Spatio-temporal Contingency of Human Life*. Springer International Publishing, 2018.]

08. "There is no before or after, but an ongoing process of intraacting agencies generating the world’s “exuberant creativeness” (Meeting 177). This understanding—being wholly consonant with the postmodern proposal of relational ontologies and the ideas of unbroken wholeness, or of an undivided uni- Ecological Postmodernism to Material Ecocriticism | 27 verse in quantum physics—is truly postmodern, in my view, and is crucial for material ecocriticism because interesting creative possibilities emerge from the coconstitution of matter and meaning, culture and nature, or “naturecultures,” to use Donna Haraway’s expression. 3 In fact, I would suggest that the leading new materialist theorists—Karen Barad, Jane Bennett, Vicki Kirby, and Stacy Alaimo—recast postmodern thought and its arguments and categories from more forceful material perspectives."[Iovino, Serenella, and Serpil Oppermann (eds.) *Material Ecocriticism*. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 2014.]

09. "In Japan, from the beginning, Architecture with a capital A never existed. When Karatani's Architecture as Metaphor was published in Japan, I was extremely interested in the fact that this book located the place of Architecture, the presence I felt behind textuality; and then I was struck by the procedures it uses to deconstruct the processes through which architecture is employed as metaphor. I think that Architecture as Metaphor, rather than remaining just a title, will begin to function as a double m e t a p h o r f o r a r c h i t e c t u r e today: while i t is still burdened with its old metaphorical power, it is now confronting the new crisis and oriented toward an unforeseen problematic formation."[Karatani, Kojin, and Sabu Kohso *Architecture as Metaphor: Language, Number, Money (Writing Architecture)*. The MIT Press, 1995.]

10. "Smooth and striated space are posited as ontologically different in kind and are related to one another analogically as form and content. When this happens, thought itself is identified with the formaI component. Content becomes the unintelligible material substrate. This distinction is at its starkest in Plato but remains the dominant tendency of thought in his wake. Having articulated the process by which smooth space is effaced, Deleuze and Guattari counsel caution. There is no romanticism of smooth spaces."[Adkins, Brent *Deleuze and Guattari’s A Thousand Plateaus: A Critical Introduction and Guide*. Edinburgh University Press, 2015.]

11. "The new materialisms suggest that things (or matter) draw their agentic power from their relation to discourses that in turn structure human relations to materiality. Resisting the emphasis on linguistic constructions of the world, formulated by some trends of postmodern thought, the new materialist paradigm is premised on the integral ways of thinking language and reality, meaning and matter together. A key point, provided by Karen Barad’s theory of agential realism, is that phenomena result from the intra-actions of material and discursive practices and agencies, which coemerge at once (hence intra- and not interaction), thus constituting the world “in its ongoing becoming. ” Matter and meaning, Barad states, are “inextricably fused together, and no event, no matter how energetic, can tear them asunder."[Iovino, Serenella, and Serpil Oppermann (eds.) *Material Ecocriticism*. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 2014.]

12. "While translation discourse tends to regard the process of interaction with a source artefact variously as “transformation,” “adaptation,” “transmutation” or “transcreation,” Gaia Del Negro draws attention to a body of psychoanalytic theory that regards the artwork as trigger, or “evocative object” (Bollas 2009: 79–94). Del Negro focuses here not on the intent to translate such artefacts into target texts, but rather on the space in which an individual’s holistic encounter with an artwork functions as a trigger, in a space a little upstream from the more output-oriented stages of intersemiotic translation described in this book—a space of encounter she terms the xxxviii Entangled Journeys—An Introduction “transitional/translational space. ” Her paper raises the question, seldom posed explicitly in translation, but more common in the domains of education and psychoanalysis, of how the self “knows” the world in that area that is “intermediate between the dream and the reality” (Winnicott 1965: 150)."[Campbell, Madeleine, and Ricarda Vidal *Translating across Sensory and Linguistic Borders: Intersemiotic Journeys between Media*. Springer International Publishing,Palgrave Macmillan, 2019.]

13. "von Weizsäcker 1979, pp. 52 f. , and Capurro 1987, pp. 17–49). In information age, we can find this entanglement represented in software and hardware – the first corresponds to form, the latter to matter. As virtual places meet their technical basis in software, they necessarily require a material substrate. Forms of re-placement co-occur with all virtual places. Complex and persistent virtual worlds demand permanently running powerful servers that occupy places, but, even in smaller scales, every digital information requires a storage medium."[Hünefeldt, Thomas, and Annika Schlitte *Situatedness and Place: Multidisciplinary Perspectives on the Spatio-temporal Contingency of Human Life*. Springer International Publishing, 2018.]

14. "And not just that; the form prescribes, in each case, the kind and selection of the matter—impermeability for the jug, adequate hardness for the ax, toughness combined with flexibility for the shoes. Moreover, the intermingling of form and matter that is operative in these cases is controlled beforehand by the purposes jug, ax, and shoes are to serve” (VA, 13/OBT, 9–10). But this does not mean that the finished equipment can be completely reduced to the matter-form-schema, in other words, that the finished jug can only be experienced as a combination of matter and form; it also does not mean that the artist’s thinking is dissimilar to the process of production, as, for instance, when a sculptor selects the “material” for a sculpture."[Riis, Søren, and Rebecca Walsh (Translator) *Unframing Martin Heidegger’s Understanding Of Technology: On The Essential Connection Between Technology, Art, And History*. Lexington Books/Rowman & Littlefield Publishing, 2018.]

15. "Like aesthetic thought, philosophical thinking is situated at the neutral point between opposite phases; but its level is not that o f the primary opposition resulting from the phase shift o f magical unity; it is that of the secondary opposition between the results o f the splitting in two of both technical thought and religious thought. It is necessary to study this secondary splitting, and particularly that of technical activity, in order to know how philosophical thinking can efficiendy and fully play its post-aesthetic role o f convergence, by applying itself to the becoming o f technicity."[Simondon, Gilbert, and Cecile Malaspina *On the Mode of Existence of Technical Objects*. Paperback. Univocal Publishing, 2017.]