Created: 2025-12-26 17:34:41
Origin: searched
Selected: From this perspective, structure is potentially an important architectural element – both as a source of light, where light passes through it or illuminates it, and also as controller of how and where light enters a space. When stone and masonry load-bearing wall construction dominated previous periods of architectural history, openings for light could be considered the absence of structure.[Charleson, Andrew *Structure As Architecture: A Source Book For Architects And Structural Engineers*. Architectural Press, 2005.]

--- Context List ---
01. "From this perspective, structure is potentially an important architectural element – both as a source of light, where light passes through it or illuminates it, and also as controller of how and where light enters a space. When stone and masonry load-bearing wall construction dominated previous periods of architectural history, openings for light could be considered the absence of structure."[Charleson, Andrew *Structure As Architecture: A Source Book For Architects And Structural Engineers*. Architectural Press, 2005.]

02. "Where structure is not exposed but concealed, perhaps hidden within wall cavities, screened by suspended ceilings or undifferentiated from partition walling, it possesses very limited opportunities to enrich architecture. In these situations, where the architecture must rely on other devices and elements for its qualities, any skeletal, wall-like or expressive structural qualities remain latent – structure cannot be read."[Charleson, Andrew *Structure As Architecture: A Source Book For Architects And Structural Engineers*. Architectural Press, 2005.]

03. "Before the widespread use of frame construction, requirements for light, ventilation, and views outside the building were met with apertures, built as openings in a wall. The limits of these openings afﬁrmed the wall’s tectonic and theoretical primacy. The frame changed all of that: windows ceased being openings in walls and became walls themselves. But when this occurred, the wall’s non-load-bearing functions had to be reconsidered."[Leatherbarrow, David, and Mohsen Mostafavi *Surface Architecture*. 2002.]

04. "The signiﬁcance of a wall’s threshold qualities notwithstanding, a wall is empirically also a screen, or cover; a function of particular importance to medieval and premodern urban Arab-Muslim culture, with its traditional enclaustration and veiling of women."[O'Meara, Simon *Space and Muslim Urban Life: At the Limits of the Labyrinth of Fez (Culture and Civilization in the Middle East)*. 2007.]

05. "On the upper levels a clear distinction between walling on the exterior and structure on the interior is apparent; what appears on the outside as the structural frame represents the actual load-bearing elements hidden within, but corrected. This use of “structure” as image also makes the “inﬁll” panel ambiguous: it is both integral with a wall and contained within a frame, which also means it is both heavy and lightweight."[Leatherbarrow, David, and Mohsen Mostafavi *Surface Architecture*. 2002.]

06. "As Scheerbart observed, the Gothic cathedral, in which the wall was dissolved by light to become a “light filter,” was Taut’s “prelude” (Taut, Glashaus) (cf. Figure 6). The nineteenth century’s “ferrous and concrete constructions” challenged the definition of rooms based upon the law of gravity – as an enclosure surrounded by solid walls – and gave momentum to the idea of using glass once again as the actual space-cladding element that could achieve a nearly Gothic manner of enclosing space (Taut, “Das Bauen” 35)."[Coleman, Nathaniel *Imagining and Making the World: Reconsidering Architecture and Utopia*. Peter Lang, 2011.]

07. "The thin wall can also be zigzagged so that the corners stabilize the shape; added intermittent structural piers will likewise provide needed support to counteract lateral forces. If laid with openings, the ﬁreproof brick screen allows privacy and air ﬂow. For buildings, brick used in a single wythe as an exterior veneer must rely on a primary supporting structure whose assembly needs air cavities, waterproof sheathing and weep holes to prevent moisture from accumulating inside the wall."[Yglesias, Caren *The Innovative Use of Materials in Architecture and Landscape Architecture: History, Theory and Performance*. McFarland, 2014.]

08. "A publication by the Architectural Aluminium Manufacturers Association in the USA (AAMA, 1971) summarizes the principles applied to curtain walling, and makes the point that the terms ‘rain screen principle’ and ‘pressure-equalized design’, though closely related, are not strictly synonymous. The rain screen is the outer skin or surface of a wall or wall elements backed by an airspace, and so designed that it shields the wall joints from wetting."[Brookes, Alan J., and Maarten Meijs *Cladding of Buildings*. 4th ed. Abington [England]; New York: Taylor & Francis, 2008.]

09. "Cant wall See Wall Cant window See Window Cantilever A structural member or any other element projecting beyond its supporting wall or column and weighted at one end to carry a proportionate weight on the projecting end. Cantilever retaining wall See Wall Cantilevered Refers to forms that have rigid structural members or surfaces that project significantly beyond their vertical support."[Ernest., Burden *Illustrated Dictionary of Architecture*. 2017.]

10. "Nonetheless the device is clearly one and the same in both regions. In the light of this knowledge perhaps nowadays opus punicum might be a more revealing designation. Opus africanum wall construction is clearly at times on the border line with stone framed construction (cf the Italian appelative, opere a telaio). It would become framed construction if the roofing beams were everywhere lodged on the wall piers, or even more exactly if the wall piers were all spanned by load bearing architraves."[Wright, G.R.H. *Ancient Building Technology, Volume 3: Construction (2 vols.)*. Brill, 2009.]

11. "Yet, wall C integrates the remains of a remarkable, obviously even earlier structure (Wall C1), most of which had already been destroyed or dismantled when the construction of wall C was started. Here, we get a glimpse of the concepts of a medieval “building in the historical context”. 3. 2 Definition of structural criteria for masonry of wall C1 The question of when Wall C1 could have been built cannot be answered in Baku itself, since no directly comparable constructions or construction techniques have been discovered here so far."[Le Brun, Nicolas *Building knowledge, construction history. 2 vols. Proceedings of the 6th International Congress on Construction History (6ICCH 2018), July 9-13, 2018, Brussels, Belgium*. London: CRC Press (U.K.), 2018.]

12. "In addition to avoiding the overuse of artiﬁcial light and the heat generated by artiﬁcial light ﬁxtures, rooms with daylight also beneﬁt their occupants, who appreciate experiencing the dynamic qualities of natural light as it changes throughout the day. In general, light ﬁxtures are designed not to be noticed; however, designs that conceal the light source limit the perceptible qualities of ﬁre as light."[Yglesias, Caren *The Innovative Use of Materials in Architecture and Landscape Architecture: History, Theory and Performance*. McFarland, 2014.]

13. "wall 2001 As thin as possible: fantasy of the  two-dimensional wall, sketched in 3D by  SANAA for the Kunstlinie Almere,  Netherlands. PAGE 3 WALL The meaning of the wall is just as diverse as the uses of vertical surface can be, but there are at least two essential  functions: providing structure and dividing space. The two can be separated, and thus the category of 'wall' divides into  two: the bearing wall, separating roof from ground; and the partition wall, organizing movement within the resulting  container. The former, it would seem, is as stable as the human need for shelter; the latter as changeable as our forms  of sociability. "[INPUT: wall.pdf]

14. "("The Collapse of the Darlington. . . ," 1904) Figure 2: Column connections Even though the frame did not support the exterior wall, the spandrel columns were completely enclosed within the wall. This was an intentional part of the design: as the wall was intended to resist wind loads, it was necessary for the frame supporting the interior gravity loads and the wall to be structurally linked."[(Editors), Paul A. Bosela 7 Norbert J. Delatte *Forensic engineering : proceedings of the 4th congress, October 6-9, 2006, Cleveland, Ohio*. Cleveland, Ohio), Reston, Va: American Society of Civil Engineers, 2007.]

15. "solar gain within the building. The cavity also and translucent glass; its simple form Because moisture occurs naturally within serves to moderate the effects of tempera- derived from the vernacular of local barns wall cavities, rainscreen technology provides ture and humidity differentials between the and agricultural sheds. a continuous thermal barrier integrated with interior and exterior of the building."[Killory, Christine *Details in Contemporary Architecture*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2007.]

16. "Cornice The upper, projecting section of an entablature; or any projecting molding at the top of a wall. Cottage orné House designed in a deliberately highly ornamental, rustic style with the use of features such as thatched roofs and rough-hewn or tree-like columns. Curtain wall In modern architecture, a non-load-bearing wall, often consisting of glass, attached to the framework of a skyscraper."[Wilkinson, Philip *50 Architecture Ideas You Really Need to Know*. Quercus Publishing Plc, 2010.]

17. "This research tries to obtain a reliable evaluation from an experimental programme on masonry wall components and wall system. The structural behaviour of the stone masonry wall depends very much on the mechanical characteristics of its components, namely the stone and the mortar. Furthermore, the structure of the wall such as single leaf, double-leaf of cavity wall with rubble infill significantly affects its load capacity and failure mode."[(ed.), S. Syngellakis *Heritage Masonry: Materials and Structures*. WIT Press, 2013.]

18. "cavity wall An exterior wall, usually of masonry, consisting of an outer course and an inner course separated by a continuous air space connected by metal ties. curtain wall A method of construction in which all building loads are transmitted to a metal skeleton frame, so that the non-load-bearing exterior walls of metal and glass are simply a protective cladding."[Ernest., Burden *Illustrated Dictionary of Architecture*. 2017.]

19. "It should be recognized that glass deﬂections are perceived more by the distortion of reﬂected images as the glass bends and ﬂexes out of plane, rather than by actual direct perception of glass movement normal to its original plane. A frequently encountered design concept is the ‘wall of glass’, with no structural members obstructing the view. This concept is seldom achievable without major innovations."[Behr, R. A. *Architectural Glass to Resist Seismic and Extreme Climatic Events*. CRC Press, 2009.]

20. "PAGE 20 WOVEN WALL The ur-wall is not, according to  19th century architectural theorist  Gottfried Semper, a mud or stone  line of enormous and reassuring  heft, but an artful, woven partition.  Hanging loosely, perhaps flapping,  the woven screen generates-   and, crucially, symbolizes -   the division and organization of  activities within the primitive dwelling. The woven "wall" is an enabler  of civilization; the thick structural  wall merely a defender of it. "[INPUT: wall.pdf]

21. "II) WALLS A) Function 1. Barrier Wall 2. Terrace Wall 3· "House" Wall B) Structure I. Stone: Megalithic, Rubble, Ashlar, Ashlar framed rubble SHECHEM cobble stiffening wood reinforcing unclear functional analysis jERICHO 392 CONSTRUCTION 2. Mudbrick: Bonding, reinforcing, combination with stone 3· Wood: Reinforcing,framing, cladding C) Aspect I. Vertical Articulation: foot, socle, face, crowning 2."[Wright, G.R.H. *Ancient Building in South Syria and Palestine*. Leiden: Brill, 1985.]

22. "In this majestic but at the same time introverted building, the mechanical systems for environmental control, heating and cooling and forced air circulation are as central as its structural conception. Tubular glass is a fundamental design material, and Wright used it to create non-diaphanous membranes. Here the combined use of natural and artificial light lends strength to the project, transforming the glass-prism from an illuminated body to a light source."[Le Brun, Nicolas *Building knowledge, construction history. 2 vols. Proceedings of the 6th International Congress on Construction History (6ICCH 2018), July 9-13, 2018, Brussels, Belgium*. London: CRC Press (U.K.), 2018.]

23. "The gradients occur across the wall between the insulation dry by allowing moisture to evap- building consists of a black base of integrally two zones. Adequate wall cavity airflow and orate. Mechanical shades located in this colored concrete supporting a monolithic drainage are not provided and the interior of cavity in front of any windows further reduce block enveloped by opaque, transparent, the wall is inaccessible."[Killory, Christine *Details in Contemporary Architecture*. Princeton Architectural Press, 2007.]

24. "Large windows help interior and garden spaces meet and blend. Structures such as glass stairs also open up the interior space, as well as giving it a sense of magic. At the same time the strong horizontals and verticals—including glazing bars, balcony rails, and radiator pipes—provide a sense of containment, like the black lines in a Mondrian painting."[Wilkinson, Philip *50 Architecture Ideas You Really Need to Know*. Quercus Publishing Plc, 2010.]

25. "If the Glashaus is read in light of this painting, the aim of the colored prismatic glass wall, which wraps its prominent dome, was to remove any feeling of heaviness, of earthliness, by transforming the solid surfaces of the structure into a weightless layer of colored light, like a foil. However, the physical quality of the result is more than a thin, transparent diaphragm; rather, even in his pursuit of dematerialization, Taut favored thick, colored diaphanous walls that absorbed and stored light."[Coleman, Nathaniel *Imagining and Making the World: Reconsidering Architecture and Utopia*. Peter Lang, 2011.]